['Cynthia R. Farina and Mary J. Newhart and Josiah  Heidt and Jackeline  Solivan', 'Balancing Inclusion and Enlightened Understanding in Designing Online Civic Participation Systems: Experiences from Regulation Room', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2479751&preflayout=flat', 'New forms of online citizen participation in government decision making have been fostered in the United States (U.S.) under the Obama Administration. Use of Web information technologies have been encouraged in an effort to create more back-and-forth communication between citizens and their government. These "Civic Participation 2.0" attempts to open the government up to broader public participation are based on three pillars of open government---transparency, participation, and collaboration. Thus far, the Administration has modeled Civic Participation 2.0 almost exclusively on the Web 2.0 ethos, in which users are enabled to shape the discussion and encouraged to assess the value of its content. We argue that strict adherence to the Web 2.0 model for citizen participation in public policymaking can produce "participation" that is unsatisfactory to both government decisionmakers and public participants. We believe that successful online civic participation design must balance inclusion and "enlightened understanding," one of the core conditions for democratic deliberation. Based on our experience with Regulation Room, an experimental online participation platform trying to broaden meaningful public engagement in the process federal agencies use to make new regulations, we offer specific suggestions on how participation designers can strike the balance between ease of engagement and quality of engagement---and so bring new voices into the policymaking process through participating that counts.']
['Jeffrey  Heer', 'Voyagers and Voyeurs: Supporting Social Data Analysis', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1559958&preflayout=flat', 'In recent years, researchers and entrepreneurs have introduced new online services for data collection and analysis, often relying on interactive visualizations to enable mass interaction with data. These sites represent the first step in what looks to be a growing online phenomenon: social data analysis, that is, collective analysis of data supported by social interaction. Engaging crowds of both experts and non-experts in the process of data exploration has applications ranging from political transparency to business intelligence to citizen science. Achieving this vision, however, will require further innovation in the design of systems for collaborative data management.In this talk, I will highlight recent efforts to use the web as a platform for collectively creating, managing, and analyzing data. I will share how web citizens are collaborating with data, and discuss how we might design systems to catalyze social forms of data management and exploration.']
['Jidraph  Njuguna and Darshan  Santani and Tierra  Bills and Aisha W. Bryant and Reginald  Bryant', 'Citizen Engagement and Awareness of the Road Surface Conditions in Nairobi, Kenya', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2678267&preflayout=flat', 'In this poster, we present a mobile crowdsourcing application, called Afya Ya Barabara (AYB) (which means road health in Kiswahili). The application serves 2 major roles: First is to collect and visualize data on road surface conditions in Nairobi. Second role is as a citizen engagement platform to raise awareness on the state of road conditions in Nairobi using Twitter hashtags. The focus of this work is to discuss how AYB is employed to promote citizen engagement. Nairobi is one of the most active cities in East Africa in terms of Twitter usage. This guided our decision to employ Twitter as a social engagement tool. The demand for more systematic citizen engagement and public participation in the governance of developing cities is growing. As government budgets are becoming increasingly tight, new ways of addressing road maintenance problems are required. Public governance in developing countries faces accountability issues that allow corruption and poor service delivery to seethe. Lack of information and citizen engagement perpetuates such tendencies. We propose Afya Ya Barabara as an engagement platform that will expand the capacity of municipalities and its citizens to better monitor road conditions using mobile technology.']
['', '', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2591888&preflayout=flat', 'The 7th International Conference on Theory and Practice of Electronic Governance, ICEGOV2013, took place in Seoul, Republic of Korea from 22 to 25 October 2013. The conference was organized under the patronage of the Ministry of Security and Public Administration of the Republic of Korea (MOSPA) by the National Information Society Agency and by Macao-based Center for Electronic Governance at United Nations University International Institute for Software Technology (UNU-IIST) as the founder and organizer of the ICEGOV series. The conference took place under the theme "Beyond 2015  Smart Governance, Smart Development". It was co-located with the Global e-Government Forum, organized by MOSPA in collaboration with United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA).The ICEGOV series focuses on the use of technology to transform relationships between government and citizens, businesses, civil society and other arms of government (Electronic Governance). Established in 2007, the series looks beyond the traditional focus on technology-enabled transformation in government (Electronic Government) towards new forms, new paradigms, and new foundations for technology-enabled governance, collaboration and sustainable development. ICEGOV is a platform where researchers, policy-makers and practitioners meet; a platform where theories are tested, insights are shared and experiences are reported; a platform for network- and capacity-building where keynote lectures and paper sessions are complemented by plenary discussions, town hall debates and poster exhibitions; a platform for international dialogue attended by participants from developing, developed and transition countries, from the United Nations system, and from many academic, governmental, non-governmental and private sector organizations. Since its establishment, the series has traveled globally from Macao (ICEGOV2007), through Cairo (ICEGOV2008), Bogota (ICEGOV2009), Beijing (ICEGOV2010), Tallinn (ICEGOV2011) and Albany (ICEGOV2012), to Seoul (ICEGOV2013) all generating significant local interest and stakeholder engagement.The program of ICEGOV2013 was built upon contributions from researchers and practitioners from around the world. In response to the call for papers, the conference received 133 papers from 54 countries and economies. The papers were evaluated in five categories: 1) Completed Research Papers  providing the outcomes of complete research in one or more aspects of EGOV, with proven capability to advance the state of research in the field, limited to 10 pages; 2) Ongoing Research Papers  providing the outcomes of ongoing research in one or more aspects of EGOV, with potential capability to advance the state of research in the field, limited to 4 pages; 3) Completed Experience Papers  describing completed experience concerning EGOV policy or practice innovations, with proven capability to advance the state of practice in the field, including critical success factors and insights on the challenges encountered and how they were addressed, limited to 10 pages; 4) Ongoing Experience Papers  describing ongoing experience concerning EGOV policy and practice innovations, with potential capability to advance the state of practice in the field, including critical success factors and insights on the challenges encountered and how they are being addressed, limited to 4 pages; and 5) Poster Papers  presenting novel ideas and initiatives with potential to advance the state of research or state of practice in the field, limited to 2 pages. In total, 43 Completed Research Papers, 45 Ongoing Research Papers, 17 Completed Experience Papers, 21 Ongoing Experience Papers and 8 Posters were received. After anonymous peer-review process carried out by the members of the Program Committee at least three independent reviews were obtained for each submission as a basis for acceptance decisions: 13 submissions were accepted as Completed Research Papers, 8 as Completed Experience Papers, 29 as Ongoing Research Papers, 11 as Ongoing Experience Papers and 21 as Poster Papers. All accepted submissions, revised to address review comments, and presented at the conference within 6 paper tracks, 11 thematic sessions and one poster session, are included in this volume. Among them, like the last three ICEGOV conferences, the authors of selected papers were invited to submit extended versions of their papers for possible publication in the special issue of Government Information Quarterly, Elsevier.Based on the submitted and invited contributions and continuing the ICEGOV tradition, ICEGOV2013 featured a rich academic, capacity-building and network-building program comprising keynote lectures, plenary discussions, town hall debates, paper tracks, thematic sessions and the doctoral colloquium and poster exhibition. The program engaged individuals from over 60 countries and economies as authors, reviewers, committee members or resource persons. The details of the program are provided below.The conference included six keynote lectures on various aspects of Electronic Governance (EGOV), conducted by distinguished experts and practitioners in the area: 1) Park Chan Woo, Vice-Minister of Security and Public Administration of the Republic of Korea; 2) Alikhan Baimenov, Chairman of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan; 3) Moon Suk Ahn, Chair Professor of e- Government, Korea University, Republic of Korea; 4) Mohammed Ali Al, Chief Executive Officer, e-Government Authority, Kingdom of Bahrain; 5) Henk G. Sol, Professor of Business and ICT and Founding Dean, University of Groningen, Netherlands; and 6) Edwin Lau, Head of Division, Reform of the Public Sector, Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).Three plenary sessions followed the keynote lectures on the second, third and fourth day of the conference, focusing on specific questions of interest to the EGOV research and policy community:1. Are international EGOV rankings having a mobilizing or distracting influence on development? Chaired by Tomasz Janowski, Head of the Center for Electronic Governance at UNU-IIST and attended by: Vincenzo Aquaro, Chief of E-Government Branch, Division for Public Administration and Development Management, UNDESA; Bikesh Kurmangaliyeva, Deputy Chairwoman of the Board of "Zerde" National CT Holding, Kazakhstan; Mohammed Ali Al Qaed, CEO of eGovernment Authority, Kingdom of Bahrain; Mesfin Belachew Tefera, Technical Advisor to the Minister, Ethiopian Ministry of Communication and Information Technology; and Saleem Zoughbi, Former Regional ICT Advisor, UNESCWA and consultant for UNU-IIST.2. Who should drive smart conversations for sustainable development  experts, citizens or politicians? Chaired by Marijn Janssen, Professor of ICT and Governance at Technology, Policy and Management Faculty, Delft University of Technology, Netherlands and attended by: Sunil Choenni, Head, Department of Statistical Information Management and Policy Analysis, Research and Documentation Centre (WODC), Dutch Ministry of Security and Justice; Harekrishna Misra, Professor in IT and Systems at the Institute of Rural Management Anand (IRMA), India; Henk G.Sol, Professor of Business and ICT and Founding Dean, Faculty of Economics and Business, University of Groningen, Netherlands; and Evgeny Styrin, Senior Research Analyst and Associate Professor, National Research University Higher School of Economics, Russia.3. Is a common set of e-government principles, applicable to all countries and contexts, possible? Chaired by Samuel Chan, Member of Executive Committee, Macao Science and Technology Development Fund, Macao SAR Government and attended by: Wojciech Cellary, Head of the Department of Information Technology, Poznan University of Economics, Poland; Sharon Dawes, Senior Fellow, Center for Technology in Government, University at Albany, USA; Edwin Lau, Head of Division, Reform of the Public Sector, Public Governance and Territorial Development Directorate, Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development; and Jeremy Millard, Associate Research Fellow, Brunel University, UK.Three town hall debates took place in the afternoons of the first, second and third days of the conference. They focused on three salient questions for the EGOV research and policy community:1. Catalyzing Smart Transformation: What Makes Governments Smarter? Chaired by Samia Melhem, Lead Policy Specialist, Transform Practice, Chair, eDevelopment Community of Practice, Transport, Water and ICT, Sustainable Development Network, World Bank Group; and Oleg Petrov, Senior Program Officer, ICT, World Bank; and attended by: Jabiri Kuwe Bakari, CEO, e-Government Agency, Tanzania; Rajendra Kumar, Senior Officer, Indian Administrative Service and Joint Secretary (e-Governance), Department of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India; Bikesh Kurmangaliyeva, Deputy Chairwoman of the Board of "Zerde" National CT Holding, Kazakhstan; Margareta Petrusevschi, Knowledge and Learning Coordinator, e-Government Centre, Government of the Republic of Moldova; James Saaka, Executive Director, National Information Technology Authority, Uganda; Mesfin Belachew Tefera, Technical Advisor to the Ethiopian Minister of Communication and Information Technology; and Jeongwon Yoon, Executive Director, National Information Society Agency, Korea. This town hall was organized by the World Bank.2. Is Good Governance a Pre-Condition or a Consequence of the Development of Knowledge Societies? Chaired by Andrea Cairola, Adviser for Communication and Information, UNESCO Office Beijing, Cluster Office to the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea, Japan, Mongolia, Peoples Republic of China and Republic of Korea; and attended by: Johanna Ekua Awotwi, Director of Research and ICT Operations, Centre for e-Governance, Accra, Ghana; Antonio Cordella, Lecturer in Information Systems, London School of Economics and Political Sciences, UK; Marco Peres, Director, Observatory for Society, Technology and Government Information, University Externado of Colombia, Colombia; Margareta Petrusevschi, Knowledge and Learning Coordinator, e-Government Centre, Government of the Republic of Moldova, Moldova; and Jeongwon Yoon, Executive Director, National Information Society Agency, Republic of Korea. This town hall was organized by the UNESCO Information for All Programme.3. Striking the Balance of Security, Privacy and Openness: To Open or Not To Open? Chaired by Theresa Pardo, Director of the Center for Technology in Government, University at Albany, USA, and attended by: Sharon Dawes, Senior Fellow, Center for Technology in Government, University at Albany, USA; Ramon Gil-Garcia, Research Director, Center for Technology in Government, University at Albany, USA; Louise Thomasen, independent consultant and expert in EGOV and technology, Denmark; and Lei Zheng, Assistant Professor, Department of Public Administration, Fudan University, China.The program included six paper tracks, chaired by leading international experts in the corresponding areas, comprising presentations of three to six accepted papers: 1) Building Smart Government chaired by Theresa Pardo, Director of the Center for Technology in Government, University at Albany, USA and Gabriel Puron Cid, Professor at the Centre of Research and Teaching in Economic Sciences, Mexico; 2) Governing through Networks chaired by Sehl Mellouli, Associate Professor at Laval University, Canada and Adegboyega Ojo, Research Fellow and Leader of E-Government Group at INSIGHT, National University of Ireland, Ireland; 3) Policy and Governance Innovation chaired by Natalie Helbig, Senior Research Associate at the Center for Technology in Government, University at Albany, USA and Marijn Janssen, Professor in ICT and Governance at the Delft University of Technology, Netherlands; 4) Smart Governance for Smart Industries chaired by Wojciech Cellary, Professor and Head of the Department of Information Technology at the Poznan University of Economics, Poland and Antonio Cordella, Lecturer at the London School of Economics and Political Sciences, UK; 5) Smart Governance for Smart Societies chaired by Jeremy Millard, Associate Research Fellow at the Brunel University, UK; and 6) Ethics, Transparency and Accountability chaired by Jeanne Holm, Chief Knowledge Architect at the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, USA. Each track took place across the whole duration of the conference, with tutorial introduction to the topic of the track organized on the first day, presentations of accepted papers on the second or third day, and workshop-style discussion on the last day.Complementing the paper tracks, 11 thematic sessions were organized and chaired by industrial, academic, government and international organizations active in the theme of the session, comprising presentations of up to four accepted papers: 1) EGOV for Development chaired by Nag Yeon Lee, ICT Consultant and Instructor for e-Government on behalf of the Asia Pacific Center on ICT for Development, United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia Pacific; 2) National Data Policies chaired by Zhanat Zhakhmetova, Head of the Office of State Informatization Policy, Department of State Information Technology Policy, on behalf of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, Republic of Kazakhstan; 3) Governing Ageing Society chaired by Toshio Obi, Professor, Institute of e-Government on behalf of Waseda University, Japan; 4) Governing Smart Cities chaired by Yoon Chang So, Smart Cities Country Leader, IBM Korea on behalf of IBM; 5) Open Government Data Impact chaired by Edwin Lau, Head of Division, Reform of the Public Sector, Public Governance and Territorial Development Directorate, on behalf of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development; 6) Interoperability Governance chaired by Jung Sik Hwang, Platform Strategy Lead at Microsoft Korea on behalf of Microsoft; 7) Government on Social Media chaired by Jeanne Holm, Evangelist, Data.Gov and Chief Knowledge Architect at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, NASA on behalf of the World Wide Web Consortium; 8) Innovative EGOV Applications chaired by Oleg Petrov, Senior Program Officer, ICT, World Bank on behalf of the World Bank; 9) Participatory Government chaired by Bernd Friedrich, Head of the Information and Communications Technologies for Development Project at Deutsche Gesellschaft f\xc3\xbcr Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH, Germany on behalf of GTZ; 10) Mobile Governance chaired by Nestor Eduardo Fajardo Infante, Advisor for Research, Development and Innovation, Ministry of Information Technology and Communication, on behalf of the Government of Colombia; and 11) Open Data Ecosystem chaired by Jeanne Holm, Evangelist, Data.Gov and Chief Knowledge Architect, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, NASA on behalf of the U.S. Government and Data.Gov.The program also included poster exhibition, organized in the reception style to allow authors to present their ongoing work, receive feedback and engage in discussions and networking; and an interactive doctoral colloquium, jointly organized by the Center for Electronic Governance at UNU-IIST, Macao, University of Groningen, Netherlands and Chuo University, Japan. The colloquium provided doctoral students from different disciplines an opportunity to discuss a variety of EGOV topics and methods related to their research work, dissertations and career plans. The colloquium was co-chaired by Elsa Estevez, Academic Program Officer, United Nations University International Institute for Software Technology, Macao; Hiroko Kudo, Professor of Public Policy and Public Management, Faculty of Law, Chuo University, Japan; and Henk G. Sol, Professor of Business and ICT and Founding Dean, Faculty of Economics and Business, University of Groningen, Netherlands; and attended by Adegboyega Ojo, Research Fellow and Leader of E-Government Group at the INSIGHT Center for Data Analytics, National University of Ireland, Ireland as invited academic.The conference awarded best paper titles in Best Research Paper and Best Experience Paper categories. The selection was carried out jointly by Elsa Estevez as the ICEGOV2013 Awards Chair, and Tomasz Janowski and Jeanne Holm as the ICEGOV2013 Program Chairs. Three papers were nominated to the Best Experience Paper award: 1) A Reputation Based Electronic Government Procurement Model by Hichem Klabi, Sehl Mellouli and Monia Rekik; 2) Government 3.0 in Korea: Fad or Fashion? byTaewoo Nam; and 3) Secure ID Management for Social Security and Tax Number System by Hisao Sakazaki, Dan Yamamoto, Akihiro Sugimoto and Shinji Hirata. The winner in this category was "A Reputation Based Electronic Government Procurement Model" by Hichem Klabi, Sehl Mellouli and Monia Rekik. Three papers were also nominated to the Best Research Paper award: 1) Harnessing the Duality of e-Participation  Social Software Infrastructure Design by Lukasz Porwol, Adegboyega Ojo and John Breslin; 2) When Food Quality Control in China Meets Mobile and Wireless Technology: Interactions, Potentials and Pitfalls by Shuhua Liu; and 3) Cross-departmental Collaboration in Government One-Stop Center: Factors and Performance by Xinping Liu. The winner in this category was "Harnessing the Duality of e-Participation  Social Software Infrastructure Design" by Lukasz Porwol, Adegboyega Ojo and John Breslin.Many people and institutions contributed to the organization of ICEGOV2013. We wish to thank the official patron of ICEGOV2013, the Ministry of Security and Public Administration of the Republic of Korea for endorsing and supporting the conference. Our sincere thanks go to the National Information Society Agency, Republic of Korea (NIA) as the local organizer of the conference, particularly to Jeongwon Yoon for his vision and leadership, and to Dohyoon Kim and the whole team in NIA for their hard work and dedication to making the combined ICEGOV2013 and Global e-Government Forum event successful. We wish to express our most sincere thanks to the key sponsors  Macao SAR Government and Macao Foundation and the sponsor  Electronic Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan whose generous contributions allowed many academics and practitioners from developing countries to attend the conference. Special gratitude is due to Macao SAR Government, its Public Administration and Civil Service Bureau, and Macao Foundation for continuing support to the ICEGOV conference series and the origin of the series  e-Macao Program. We also wish to thank ICEGOV2013 partners for their presence, support and in-kind contributions: Brunel University, London, UK; Center for Technology in Government, University at Albany, USA; Data.Gov, U.S. Government; German Cooperation, Deutsche Zusammenarbeit and Deutsche Gesellschaft f\xc3\xbcr Internationale Zusammenarbeit, Germany; IBM; Information and Communication Technologies, World Bank; Microsoft; Ministry of Information Technology and Communication, Colombia (MINTIC); Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development; Poznan University of Economics, Poland; The Insight Centre for Data Analytics, National University of Ireland, Ireland; The Science and Technology Development Fund, Government of Macao SAR, Macao; UNESCO Information for All Programme; United Nations Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communication Technology for Development; Vive Digital Programme, MINTIC, Colombia; Waseda University, Japan; and the World Wide Web Consortium. We also wish to express our thanks to ACM Press for publishing the ICEGOV2013 conference proceedings. We are most grateful to the whole Advisory Committee for supporting the conference and to all members of the Program Committee and additional reviewers for their efforts to carry out quality reviews and to help build a strong conference program. We thank keynote speakers; organizers, chairs and moderators of the plenary sessions, town hall debates, paper tracks, thematic sessions, the doctoral colloquium, and the poster session; and all panelists and speakers for their intellectual contributions. Last but not least, we are most thankful to all authors for their efforts in preparing, submitting and presenting papers at ICEGOV2013.We hope that ICEGOV2013 will further contribute to building, growing and connecting global EGOV research, policy and practice communities, able to cross not only national and regional but also institutional and thematic borders, and that the contacts, discussions and ideas initiated in Seoul in October 2013 will continue well after the conference and towards ICEGOV2014 in Guimaraes, Portugal.']
['Simo  Hosio and Jorge  Goncalves and Vassilis  Kostakos and Keith  Cheverst and Yvonne  Rogers', "Human Interfaces for Civic and Urban Engagement: HiCUE '13", 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2495993&preflayout=flat', 'How should citizens and communities interact with and in their city? Leveraging urban resources for civic purposes, such as citizen participation and community engagement, has been gaining interest in HCI. Essentially, citizens can be empowered to be heard and engage the city better through the use of modern technology. Examples of these technologies are mobile phones, public displays, sensor networks, digital art installations, or any other type of urban technology. This workshop seeks to investigate the progress in creating public human interfaces for interactive urban engagement. We wish to discuss issues such as citizen participation in public life and decision-making, informing citizens, and civic engagement in all its various forms.']
['Andy  Pilny and Brian  Keegan and Brooke  Wells and Chris  Riedl and David  Lazer and Jason  Radford and Katya  Ognyanova and Leslie  DeChurch and Michael  Macy and Noshir  Contractor and Waleed  Meleis', 'Designing Online Experiments: Citizen Science Approaches to Research', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2855516&preflayout=flat', 'In this workshop we will host presentations from researchers performing online experiments and spend a half day helping attendees create experiments using the Volunteer Science platform. Current approaches to online science use new information technologies to collect and processes data and engage citizen scientists across the globe. Programs like Zooniverse, Fold.It, and SciStarter demonstrate the power of recruiting online volunteers as participants and contributors to research. Platforms like Project Implicit and Volunteer Science confirm that a wide range of social scientific research can be conducted with volunteers in online laboratories. In this workshop, a group of scholars with wide-ranging experience in this area will discuss existing and emerging approaches to online experimentation. Participants will learn about designing and running online studies and will be given access to the Volunteer Science research platform (volunteerscience.com) where they will work with researchers to develop, test, and deploy their own online studies.']
['Alexander  Sokolov and Anton  Verevkin', 'Web Application for Civil Action: How It Works in Modern Russia', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2846035&preflayout=flat', 'The current situation in Russia is characterized by an intensification in civic engagement: there is an increase in citizens\' participation in social movements, protests, and various forms of collective action. At the same time, new instruments and mechanisms are being introduced into the organization of civic engagement. Most of them are associated with the development of the Internet, which facilitates communication between members of civic activism.One of these mechanisms is web applications for civil action. These applications make it possible to bring together an unlimited number of persons in order to deal with a variety of social problems. In this respect, it is important to research this form of civic engagement, which is developing in modern Russia and proving to be so effective. Therefore, the aim of this research is to analyze the effectiveness of such web applications in the process of solving problems both on the level of society as a whole and for individual citizens. The analysis of individual applications allows us to reveal the advantages of this kind of cooperation in solving social problems. We propose to evaluate the effectiveness of web applications as a facility of their service to reduce the transaction costs in the search for and analysis of information, and the identification and assessment of possible alternatives in the process of solving both on the level of society as a whole and for individual citizens.In this paper we analyze three major web applications: "Tak prosto!" ("So easy!"), "Nepofigizm" ("Unindifference"), "Tak-tak-tak..." ("Tut tut tut"). Scrutinizing some quantitative indicators, we explore how they operate. These indicators include: website traffic, the number of users involved in social networks, the number of views of discussions and videos created by the web application, and regional coverage. We have used the case-study method with some event-analysis to collect and analyze the data.It is possible to determine the attractiveness and relevance these applications as tools for citizens in solving various problems. Primarily, it must be identified as a new form of cooperation between citizens and non-profit organizations for solving social problems. Taking into account the demand for civic web applications, the ability to significantly reduce the transaction costs of solving the problems of citizens, as well as the growth of users of these web applications, we can speak about the effectiveness of civic applications in Russia.']
['Douglas  Schuler and Fiorella  De Cindio and Anna  De Liddo', 'Encouraging Collective Intelligence for the Common Good: How Do We Integrate the Disparate Pieces?', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2768562&preflayout=flat', 'Largely due to the Internet and the increase in digital network communications worldwide, researchers, community members, activists, and many others are exploring new ways of empowering citizens with systems that promote Collective Intelligence for the Common Good (CI4CG). We define CI4CG as a distinctive type of collective intelligence, which emerges in civic contexts; it is aimed at generating societal good; improving civic engagement; enabling democratic decision making and deliberation; and producing, collectively built and owned, transformative solutions to complex societal challenges. In this workshop we will survey a variety of online tools and discuss what aspects of CI4CG they are intended to address and how they would be used by communities. An important part of the work will be identifying possible approaches towards integrating the tools technologically and socially. We will try to identify frameworks and mechanisms that various systems could leverage.']
['Souneil  Park and Minsam  Ko and Jaeung  Lee and Aram  Choi and Junehwa  Song', 'Challenges and Opportunities of Local Journalism: A Case Study of the 2012 Korean General Election', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2464523&preflayout=flat', "Local journalism is a vital element for governance and civic engagement in local communities. It not only serves as an accountability mechanism for key local institutions but also enhances communities' problem solving skills by setting important agendas and opening public discussions. However, the Internet is posing serious challenges to local news outlets that lead to a significant reduction of accountability reporting and decreasing revenue. In this paper, we study the challenges and opportunities of local journalism in online communication space. We first observe the status of local journalism in online discourse by analyzing the public attention to local news outlets. Using Twitter to capture online public discourse, the study provides a large-scale quantitative analysis of the public's attention to local journalism. We also explore the potential to promote local journalism with information systems through a real deployment study. We propose a context-specific, decision-oriented design approach for local journalism, and evaluate it using Informed Citizen, a web portal to local journalistic contents of electoral districts."]
['Luigina  Ciolfi and Areti  Damala and Eva  Hornecker and Monika  Lechner and Laura  Maye and Daniela  Petrelli', 'Cultural Heritage Communities: Technologies and Challenges', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2768560&preflayout=flat', 'This workshop will explore the role of technology supporting and mediating cultural heritage practices for both professional communities (cultural heritage professionals, heritage institutions, etc.) and civic communities (citizen-led heritage initiatives, heritage volunteers, personal and community identified heritage, heritage crowdsourcing, etc.). The workshop - which aims to attract participants from heritage studies and practice, community engagement, digital humanities and human-centred computing - will discuss challenges and future opportunities for technology use and for design and participatory processes in the context of various heritage communities, and the role of different stakeholders in engaging with heritage in a technologically-mediated way.']
['Gianluca  Schiavo and Marco  Milano and Jorge  Saldivar and Tooba  Nasir and Massimo  Zancanaro and Gregorio  Convertino', 'Agora2.0: Enhancing Civic Participation Through a Public Display', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2483005&preflayout=flat', "Providing a common place for the civil society to gather and discuss topics of mutual interest is a growing challenge for social and collaborative computing. Web-based tools for civic engagement, while promising, are still disconnected from meaningful physical locations where citizens usually meet and might limit the involvement of a considerable portion of the citizen population. We propose a system, Agora2.0, designed to recover the useful function that public places have had in the past in promoting and regulating citizens' participation in public decisions. Agora2.0 is inspired by the old concept of the Greek agora, or public square. It is composed of an onsite interactive public display and an online site. We present the project, the analysis of the requirements, the system prototype, and its evaluation during deployments in a university and in a public relations office of a European city."]
['Joel  Fredericks and Martin  Tomitsch and Luke  Hespanhol and Ian  McArthur', 'Digital Pop-Up: Investigating Bespoke Community Engagement in Public Spaces', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2838759&preflayout=flat', 'This paper presents findings from a series of iterative field studies on the use of interactive, situated digital technologies deployed within a pop-up style format used for the purpose of community engagement. Based on observations, participant interviews, and a focus group with representatives from the local government authority, the contribution of this research is twofold. First, we propose five elements to guide the design of digital pop-up interventions for community engagement. Second, we demonstrate the effectiveness of combining digital interfaces and a physical pop-up within a civic space equipped with a large urban screen to engage wider cross-sections of the public. From that, we derive insights about the utilisation of this approach in attracting the attention of people who do not generally attend traditional community engagement events, and provide a more seamless consultation process by enabling citizens to submit their responses on the spot.']
['Ronald  Schroeter', 'Engaging New Digital Locals with Interactive Urban Screens to Collaboratively Improve the City', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2145239&preflayout=flat', "Local governments struggle to engage time poor and seemingly apathetic citizens, as well as the city's young digital natives, the digital locals. This project aims at providing a lightweight, technological contribution towards removing the hierarchy between those who build the city and those who use it. We aim to narrow this gap by enhancing people's experience of physical spaces with digital, civic technologies that are directly accessible within that space. This paper presents the findings of a design trial allowing users to interact with a public screen via their mobile phones. The screen facilitated a feedback platform about a concrete urban planning project by promoting specific questions and encouraging direct, in-situ, real-time responses via SMS and twitter. This new mechanism offers additional benefits for civic participation as it gives voice to residents who otherwise would not be heard. It also promotes a positive attitude towards local governments and gathers information different from more traditional public engagement tools."]
['Shelly  Farnham and David  Keyes and Vicky  Yuki and Chris  Tugwell', 'Puget Sound off: Fostering Youth Civic Engagement Through Citizen Journalism', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2145251&preflayout=flat', 'Social media technologies provide unique channels to empower youth to become more civically engaged. Puget Sound Off is an online blogging and networking site focused on helping youth connect, collaborate, and take action around local community issues. We performed an evaluation study seeking lessons learned from a real world deployment. We found that a core group of youth became highly engaged with Puget Sound Off, and that both usage and identification with the community was positively correlated with civic engagement. Youth reported an appreciation for the opportunity for meaningful discussion around issues that mattered to them. We found however that growth of Puget Sound Off was slow, in part due to the constraints of deploying to youth in a real world context with concerns about inappropriate use. We end with recommendations for fostering growth and civic engagement in related social media technologies.']
['Annie  Bertrand', 'Global Youth Connectivity (GYC) - Using ICT for Peaceful Recovery and Long-term Change', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1812586&preflayout=flat', 'ICT enables peaceful change in communities affected by conflicts, poverty and injustice. In this demo, we illustrate how young people use multimedia, cell phones and the internet to become global citizen s responsible for building secure, productive and just communities at home and around the world. Global Youth Connectivity allows disaffected youth to express thoughts and feelings, while also scaling global citizenship education and civic engagement across borders. Thousands of Middle-Eastern and American youth have exchanged content and discussed online since 2005. Innovations and partnerships should enable Mercy Corps to empower millions more living in extreme vulnerability.']
['Meelis  Kitsing', 'Online Participation in Estonia: Active Voting, Low Engagement', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2072073&preflayout=flat', "This paper discusses online participation in Estonia. Even though Estonia's e-government initiatives are often presented as examples for other countries to be followed, this analysis finds high degree of variation in the outcomes. The availability of innovative platforms for online political participation has led to increasing use of internet voting in the last five elections, while they have consistently failed to engage public in the legislative process. Furthermore, the internet voting can be seen as transactional. It has not made substantial contribution to online democratic participation other than making voting more convenient for certain segments of society. The government portal for encouraging citizens to express their views about new laws suffers from both unwillingness of citizens to participate and most ministries to make new laws available."]
['Deborah L. Estrin', 'Participatory Sensing: Applications and Architecture', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1814435&preflayout=flat', 'Participatory sensing is the process whereby individuals and communities use ever-more-capable mobile phones and cloud services to collect and analyze systematic data for use in discovery. The convergence of technology and analytical innovation with a citizenry that is increasingly comfortable using mobile phones and online social networking sets the stage for this technology to dramatically impact many aspects of our daily lives.Participatory sensing can serve as a powerful "make a case" technology to support advocacy and civic engagement. It can provide a framework in which citizens can bring to light a civic bottleneck, hazard, personal-safety concern, cultural asset, or other data relevant to urban and natural-resources planning and services, all using data that are systematic and can be validated (http://whatsinvasive.com.) The same systems can be used as tools for sustainability. For example, individuals and communities can explore their transportation and consumption habits and corporations can promote more sustainable practices among employees (http://peir.cens.ucla.edu and http://biketastic.com.)']
['Mike  Harding and Bran  Knowles and Nigel  Davies and Mark  Rouncefield', 'HCI, Civic Engagement &#38; Trust', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2702255&preflayout=flat', 'There is a widespread belief that pervasive technologies will encourage and facilitate partnerships between citizens and civic authorities, enabling individuals to play a greater role in civic planning, service delivery and infrastructure management. However, at present sustained use and perceived value of civic engagement technologies remains low because the design space is poorly understood by system developers who focus almost exclusively on empowering citizens rather than adopting an informed, inclusive approach that addresses the needs of both citizens and civic authorities, and helps establish trusted relationships between these different stakeholders. We report on an extensive study of civic engagement in the domain of public infrastructure maintenance and provide insights into the civic management processes to support future design of trusted civic engagement interactions.']
['', '', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2072069&preflayout=flat', 'The 5th International Conference on Theory and Practice of Electronic Governance, ICEGOV2011, took place in Tallinn, Estonia from the 26th to the 28th of October 2011, under the patronage of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communication of the Republic of Estonia. The conference was co-organized by: e-Governance Academy in close partnership with Enterprise Estonia, Estonia; and Center for Technology in Government, University at Albany, State University of New York, USA. Part of the ICEGOV conference series, ICEGOV2011 was supported by the series coordinator - UNU-IIST (United Nations University - International Institute for Software Technology) Center for Electronic Governance, Macao SAR, China. The conference took place in the framework of the Nordic IT Week and various ICEGOV2011-collocated events were organized as part of this framework on the 29th of September 2011.The ICEGOV series focuses on the use of technology to transform relationships between government and citizens, businesses, civil society and other arms of government (Electronic Governance). Established in 2007 by the UNU-IIST Center for Electronic Governance, the series looks beyond the traditional focus on technology-enabled transformation in government (Electronic Government) towards new forms, new paradigms, and new foundations for technology-enabled governance, collaboration and sustainable development. ICEGOV is a platform where researchers and practitioners meet, a platform where: theories are tested, insights are shared and experiences are reported. It is a platform for network- and capacity-building: the keynote lectures and paper sessions are complemented by tutorials, thematic sessions and discussion panels. It is also a platform for development, attended by participants from developing and transition countries, from the United Nations, and from a range of governmental and non-governmental organizations. Since its establishment, the series has traveled globally from Macao SAR (ICEGOV2007), through Cairo (ICEGOV2008), Bogota (ICEGOV2009), Beijing (ICEGOV2010), to Tallinn (ICEGOV2011), all editions generating significant local interest and stakeholder engagement from both practitioners and academics.']
['Callum  Parker and Martin  Tomitsch and Judy  Kay and Matthias  Baldauf', 'Keeping It Private: An Augmented Reality Approach to Citizen Participation with Public Displays', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2804401&preflayout=flat', 'With the availability of displays in public space increasing, they have been proposed and studied as platform for civic engagement. Due to their situated nature, public displays have the potential to enable a larger cross-section of the public to participate in community consultation processes, compared to focus groups or online surveys. Previous research has investigated a range of interaction methods for enabling this form of citizen participation with public displays. Through an analysis of related work we identified four main categories of interaction methods: remote indirect, kiosk, mid-air gestural and mobile. In this paper we propose a formerly introduced interaction method, based upon mobile augmented reality, which promises to enable pervasive participation by making interactions more private and simultaneous, through a familiar and convenient interface.']
['Alexandra  Stiver and Leonor  Barroca and Marian  Petre and Mike  Richards and Dave  Roberts', 'Civic Crowdfunding: How Do Offline Communities Engage Online?', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2783585&preflayout=flat', 'Civic crowdfunding is a sub-type of crowdfunding whereby citizens contribute to funding community-based projects ranging from physical structures to amenities. Though civic crowdfunding has great potential for impact, it remains a developing field in terms of project success and widespread adoption. To explore how technology shapes interactions and outcomes within civic projects, our research addresses two interrelated questions: how do offline communities engage online across civic crowdfunding projects, and, what purpose does this activity serve both projects and communities? These questions are explored through discussion of types of offline communities and description of online activity across civic crowdfunding projects. We conclude by considering the implications of this knowledge for civic crowdfunding and its continued research.']
['Bryan  Semaan and Heather  Faucett and Scott  Robertson and Misa  Maruyama and Sara  Douglas', 'Navigating Imagined Audiences: Motivations for Participating in the Online Public Sphere', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2675187&preflayout=flat', "Little is known about why and how people use multiple social media platforms for political participation, or about the contexts through which social media is appropriated. This paper reports on a qualitative interview study of social media use by politically interested citizens. We interviewed 27 residents of the state of Hawaii who integrated one or more social media tools into their daily lives to participate in the online public sphere. Different social media environments offer both different affordances for action and different audiences, and we describe how media choice is driven by the match between motivations and affordances, and also by the imagined audience. We identified a number of motivations including understanding different viewpoints, formulating perspectives, engaging in positive discourse, repairing Hawaii's image, increasing political awareness and improving civic engagement. We discuss how these goals relate to both intrinsic and extrinsic motivations. Finally, we examine how social media choice and satisfaction were tied to the physical world context and people's sense of the audience within any particular medium."]
['Phil  Greenwood and Awais  Rashid and James  Walkerdine', 'UDesignIt: Towards Social Media for Community-driven Design', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2337407&preflayout=flat', " Online social networks are now common place in day-to-day lives. They are also increasingly used to drive social action initiatives, either led by government or communities themselves (e.g., SeeClickFix, LoveLewisham.org, mumsnet). However, such initiatives are mainly used for crowd sourcing community views or coordinating activities. With the changing global economic and political landscape, there is an ever pressing need to engage citizens on a large-scale, not only in consultations about systems that affect them, but also involve them directly in the design of these very systems. In this paper we present the UDesignIt platform that combines social media technologies with software engineering concepts to empower communities to discuss and extract high-level design features. It combines natural language processing, feature modelling and visual overlays in the form of ``image clouds'' to enable communities and software engineers alike to unlock the knowledge contained in the unstructured and unfiltered content of social media where people discuss social problems and their solutions. By automatically extracting key themes and presenting them in a structured and organised manner in near real-time, the approach drives a shift towards large-scale engagement of community stakeholders for system design. "]
['Theresa  Pardo and Meghan  Cook and Jana  Hrdinov&#225;', 'Investing in Open Government: Applying Lessons from Research and Practice', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2037628&preflayout=flat', 'The 2009 White House Open Government Directive set off a wave of planning and new initiative development among federal agencies designed to achieve the goals of this mandate, and has stimulated significant interest among state and local governments and open government advocates in their efforts. Federal initiatives have been directed at increasing transparency, citizen engagement and participation, as well as cultivating collaboration with the public and other government agencies. Using new technologies, especially social media technologies, to fulfill the mandate of this directive provides an opportunity for governments to engage citizens in new ways and create innovative collaboration models. However, it also increases levels of risk and uncertainty due to the complexity of implementing technologies that are not yet well understood in substantially new government contexts. These opportunities and risks make current "Government 2.0" efforts an interesting and valuable digital government research area. This panel will help promote such research by providing an opportunity for government officials and researchers to identify and discuss significant research issues and goals related to open government at the federal agency level.']
['Natalie Greene Taylor and Paul T. Jaeger and Ursula  Gorham and John Carlo Bertot and Ruth  Lincoln and Elizabeth  Larson', 'The Circular Continuum of Agencies, Libraries, and Users: A Model of e-Government in Practice', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2463750&preflayout=flat', 'When e-government first became a viable solution to the dissemination of government information, experts believed that the rise of direct government-to-citizen (G2C) services would improve government transparency and foster civic engagement. It soon became clear, however, that not all users were not getting the type of information or instruction that they needed from this arrangement, and that there was a need for an intermediary in this continuum of services. Increasingly, libraries fulfill this role. Instead of direct government-to-user interaction, information channels flow from agency to librarian to user, from user back up to agency, and from agency to user to librarian. This paper expands on the idea of these multiple pathways of information through research conducted in collaboration with libraries, government agencies, state library agencies, and a national library association in the United States with aims to create an e-government web resource to assist librarians engaging in e-government services. The different pathways of information both informed the creation of the web resource and offered a practical model of e-government, important for other projects dealing with similar information.']
['Shahzore  Qureshi and Francisco  Estevez and Sarah Monisha Pulimood', 'Students Organizing Against Pollution: Computational Thinking Across Boundaries', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2465614&preflayout=flat', 'There is a growing need in computer science education to develop courses that demonstrate the articulations between computer science and an array of computing-dependent fields. This poster describes an effort to develop a model for students and faculty to collaborate across disciplines and with a community organization to develop computational solutions to address complex real-world problems. Students in computer science classes are collaborating with students in journalism classes and Habitat for Humanity, to develop a web-based system that manages pollution related data. This is an initiative aimed at empowering citizens in the Trenton area of New Jersey with the opportunity to learn, share, and contribute pollution data while encouraging them to become participants in environmental advocacy and public policy deliberations on these issues. While students focus on the objectives of the individual courses, they are also deeply engaged in the complexities of privacy, security, accessibility of data, user-centered design, etc. as they ponder civic justice issues.']
['Jerry Alan Fails and Katherine G. Herbert and Emily  Hill and Christopher  Loeschorn and Spencer  Kordecki and David  Dymko and Andrew  DeStefano and Zill  Christian', 'GeoTagger: A Collaborative and Participatory Environmental Inquiry System', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2556481&preflayout=flat', 'This note focuses on the motivation, approach, and the initial prototype implementation of Geotagger: a collaborative participatory environmental inquiry system. We situate the need for such a technology, and discuss related work -- much of which is situated in the realm of citizen science. Our work uniquely distinguishes itself from many other citizen science applications in that it supports limited data collection and analysis, with the additional benefit of supporting social interactions and engagement through conversations about observed data. This is accomplished by creating friends and groups which are collaborators in the observational inquiry process.']
['Minna  Pakanen and Anna Maria Polli and Stella  Lee and Joseph  Lindley and Jorge  Goncalves', 'Tending a Virtual Garden: Exploring Connectivity Between Cities', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2496004&preflayout=flat', 'This paper introduces a new experience-driven design concept to public spaces, such as bus stops, to strengthen connections between cities and their citizens. With the prototype described here we are provoking inquiry into whether the "technology" that is a bus stop, with high tech augmentations can engender civic engagement and more interconnected cities. Our preliminary user studies showed that people, while waiting for the bus, do not interact with each other, and as such are "alone together". Our concept is to connect people in the city, and also between two different cities by utilizing their waiting time. "Virtual Garden" creates the experience of "being connected" by providing users with the possibility to "grow" a collaborative garden using a smartphone and natural gestures as the control interaction. Lo-fi prototypes were used to gather user feedback which informed the design of the \'Virtual Garden\'.']
['Bryan C. Semaan and Scott P. Robertson and Sara  Douglas and Misa  Maruyama', 'Social Media Supporting Political Deliberation Across Multiple Public Spheres: Towards Depolarization', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2531605&preflayout=flat', 'This paper reports on a qualitative study of social media use for political deliberation by 21 U.S. citizens. In observing people\'s interactions in the "sprawling public sphere" across multiple social media tools in both political and non-political spaces, we found that social media supported the interactional dimensions of deliberative democracy--the interaction with media and the interaction between people. People used multiple tools through which they: were serendipitously exposed to diverse political information, constructed diverse information feeds, disseminated diverse information, and engaged in respectful and reasoned political discussions with diverse audiences. When people\'s civic agency was inhibited when using a tool, they often adopted, or switched to, alternative media that could afford what they were trying to achieve. Contrary to the polarization perspective, we find that people were purposefully seeking diverse information and discussants. Some individuals altered their views as a result of the interactions they were having in the online public sphere.']
['Stef  van Grieken', "Let's Build the Road Network of Civic Tech", 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2641581&preflayout=flat', "Your awesome petition app is like a sports car without a freeway to drive on. Over the past several years we've built amazing civic apps that are improving public service delivery, engaging more citizens in the political process, and making governments more accountable around the world. But we're rapidly approaching a point common to all new public technologies: the need for common infrastructure to enable massive scale. This talk will discuss three tenets of civic technology that will take us towards a common framework, and present research and examples of work doing this today. It's time for developers, governments, corporations, academics, funders and citizens to come together and lay the groundwork for what's next."]
['Kelly  Shigeno and Sergio  Borger and Diego  Gallo and Ricardo  Herrmann and Mateus  Molinaro and Carlos  Cardonha and Fernando  Koch and Priscilla  Avegliano', 'Citizen Sensing for Collaborative Construction of Accessibility Maps', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2461153&preflayout=flat', "In this demo we present IBM Sidewalks, a mobile application designed to facilitate the identification of accessibility issues in a city via crowdsourcing. This application connects to our Citizen Sensing platform, providing to city administrators an integrated view about issues in the city, such as sidewalks that are obstructed or in bad condition. If a representative amount of data is collected through people engagement, a significant number of issues will be registered, and analytics tools can be used to identify the impact these issues have on people with disabilities' lives. Consequently, we can use such information to build accessibility maps, and possibly to define an appropriate action plan to address the issues, optimizing resource allocation."]
['Kurt  Luther and Scott  Counts and Kristin B. Stecher and Aaron  Hoff and Paul  Johns', 'Pathfinder: An Online Collaboration Environment for Citizen Scientists', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1518741&preflayout=flat', 'For over a century, citizen scientists have volunteered to collect huge quantities of data for professional scientists to analyze. We designed Pathfinder, an online environment that challenges this traditional division of labor by providing tools for citizen scientists to collaboratively discuss and analyze the data they collect. We evaluated Pathfinder in a sustainability and commuting context using a mixed methods approach in both naturalistic and experimental settings. Our results showed that citizen scientists preferred Pathfinder to a standard wiki and were able to go beyond data collection and engage in deeper discussion and analyses. We also found that citizen scientists require special types of technological support because they generate original research. This paper offers an early example of the mutually beneficial relationship between HCI and citizen science.']
['Marco A. Figueiredo and Paola  Prado and Mauro A. C&#226;mara and Ana M. Albuquerque', 'Empowering Rural Citizen Journalism via Web 2.0 Technologies', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1556473&preflayout=flat', 'Once acquainted with the modern information and communication tools made available with the advent of the Internet, five Brazilian rural communities participating in a pilot project to develop a self-sustaining telecenter model, engaged in citizen journalism using inexpensive digital video cameras. Community members used Web 2.0 collaborative tools to post short videos on the telecenter portal. The 95 video blogs published between September 2006 and May 2008 recorded various aspects of community life, including religious celebrations, oral history arts and crafts traditions, folklore, and environmental concerns. This study evaluates the impact of video blogging in these communities.']
['Duncan  Rowland and Abigail  Durrant and Rachel  Clarke', 'Interactions Gallery', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2783625&preflayout=flat', "This paper describes the Interactions Gallery, a new initiative at British HCI (BHCI) that seeks to bring a 'pop-up' gallery space to an academic conference. Submissions were welcomed from creative practitioners, artists and HCI researchers alike, with the call for work that provokes open discussion about the conference themes -- on the nature of computers in society and the future of human-computer interaction (HCI). More specifically, with Lincoln housing one of only four surviving copies of the Magna Carta the city has taken a major role in the 2015's 800th anniversary celebrations. This anniversary has provided a unique historic backdrop for a conference theming relating to the role interactive technology plays in the enactment of our civic lives. Interactive technologies are increasingly mediating citizens' relationships to their privacy, rights, authority, governance and each other. It therefore seemed fitting to include work for the Interactions Gallery that engages with the concerns of social renewal, activism, democracy, and grassroots innovation. Submitted work was diverse in approach, including fine art, performance, interactive media design, demonstrations and technologically augmented live experiences. The chairs collectively selected pieces based on their thematic relevance and the practical staging requirements of the event setting. Work was documented through the archival publication of abstracts in the conference proceedings."]
['Bryan  Semaan and Gloria  Mark', 'Technology-mediated Social Arrangements to Resolve Breakdowns in Infrastructure During Ongoing Disruption', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2063235&preflayout=flat', 'When societies experience disruption as caused by natural disasters, various official government agencies, relief organizations, and emergent citizen groups engage in activities that aid in the recovery effort\xe2\x80\x94the process that leads to the resumption of normal life. In war environments however, societal trust can be affected and people may develop distrust of the institutions and associated individuals that provide and resolve breakdowns in infrastructure. This article reports on an ethnographic study of the use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) by citizens experiencing ongoing disruption in a conflict zone. We conducted 90 semistructured interviews with Iraqi civilians who experienced the 2nd Gulf War beginning in March 2003. We show how citizens used ICTs to continuously resolve breakdowns in infrastructure during ongoing disruption caused by the conflict, by creating new, reliable technology-mediated social arrangements that enabled people to maintain daily routines for travel, education, and obtaining information. We then discuss new ways to think about infrastructure and implications for the disaster relief effort.']
['Dragana  Majstorovic and Maria A. Wimmer', 'Future Scenarios of ICT Solutions for Governance and Policy Modelling', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2691233&preflayout=flat', 'The modern world is facing global challenges while at the same time becoming more and more interconnected, dynamic and complex in nature. Accordingly, appropriate methods and tools for successful open and collaborative public governance and public policy making supported by innovative ICT are increasingly becoming important. Along the demands for the implementation of good governance principles and the adoption of open government, policy officials need concise and reliable information to conduct policy making in an efficient and effective way. Likewise, the engagement of the citizenry as well as of civil society organisations (CSOs) and of representatives of the business and voluntary sectors have become imperative. In an international and inter-disciplinary researcher network called eGovPoliNet, scholars have developed visionary scenarios to envisage how ICT-supported open and public governance and policy making might emerge in the years to come. We used scenario building as a method to get insights into potential alternative futures in a certain area. The scenarios sketched the interactions, environment, technological developments and other relevant aspects of potential futures of ICT-enabled public governance and how policy modelling could be deployed thereby. From initial 19 scenarios formulated, a final set of six scenarios has been consolidated and exposed to a wider group of experts. Next step in this process is to develop a range of grand challenges and research directions in this field.']
['', '', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2463728&preflayout=flat', 'The 6th International Conference on Theory and Practice of Electronic Governance, ICEGOV2012, was held in Albany, New York, United States (US) from October 22-25, 2012. It was hosted by the Center for Technology in Government, University at Albany, State University of New York under the patronage of the United States National Archives and Record Administration. The conference was supported by the Center for Electronic Governance of the United Nations University - International Institute for Software Technology (UNU-IIST), Macao SAR, which is the ICEGOV Series Organizer.The ICEGOV (International Conference on Theory and Practice of Electronic Governance) series focuses on the use of technology to transform relationships between government and citizens, businesses, civil society and other governments (Electronic Governance). Established in 2007 by the Center for Electronic Governance, UNU-IIST, the series looks beyond the traditional focus on technology-enabled transformation in government (Electronic Government) towards new forms, new paradigms, and new foundations for technology-enabled governance, collaboration and sustainable development. ICEGOV is a forum where researchers and practitioners meet to test theories, share insights and report their experiences. It facilitates network- and capacity-building through a diversity of presentation formats. The conference also provides a unque developmental opportunity for participants from developing countries, nations in transition, United Nations agencies, and from a range of governmental and non-governmental organizations. Since its establishment, the series has traveled the globe from Macao SAR (ICEGOV2007), to Cairo (ICEGOV2008), Bogota (ICEGOV2009), Beijing (ICEGOV2010), Tallinn (ICEGOV2011), and now to Albany (ICEGOV2012); with each edition generating significant local interest and stakeholder engagement.']
['Ronald  Schroeter and Marcus  Foth and Christine  Satchell', 'People, Content, Location: Sweet Spotting Urban Screens for Situated Engagement', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2317980&preflayout=flat', 'A growing body of research is looking at ways to bring the processes and benefits of online deliberation to the places they are about and in turn allow a larger, targeted proportion of the urban public to have a voice, be heard, and engage in questions of city planning and design. Seeking to take advantage of the civic opportunities of situated engagement through public screens and mobile devices, our research informed a public urban screen content application DIS that we deployed and evaluated in a wide range of real world public and urban environments. For example, it is currently running on the renowned urban screen at Federation Square in Melbourne. We analysed the data from these user studies within a conceptual framework that positions situated engagement across three key parameters: people, content, and location. We propose a way to identify the sweet spot within the nexus of these parameters to help deploy and run interactive systems to maximise the quality of the situated engagement for civic and related deliberation purposes.']
['Mara  Balestrini and Yvonne  Rogers and Paul  Marshall', 'Civically Engaged HCI: Tensions Between Novelty and Social Impact', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2783590&preflayout=flat', "HCI researchers are increasingly conducting civically engaged research in the wild to design technologies for social action that aim to empower communities at the grassroots level. However, there are very few descriptions of HCI interventions that have achieved sustained community engagement and social impact. We discuss three tensions that are hindering HCI's capacity to produce both research and social contributions and suggest how to overcome them."]
['Aleksandr  Sherstobitov', 'The Potential of Social Media in Russia: From Political Mobilization to Civic Engagement', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2729118&preflayout=flat', 'Social media was one of the most influential platforms used by counterparts in many recent contentious political events all over the world. Both the statist and protest groups used web-based social networks for political mobilization during the electoral period of 2011\xe2\x80\x932012 in Russia. This paper focuses on two basic aspects of political communication in the Russian segment of the Internet. Firstly, it discusses the emergence of pro-elite and protest networks, which aim to mobilize political participation during the electoral period. Secondly, it explores the evolution of such networks within 18 months and offline activity, which is determined by contention on social media. In our survey, we take the pro-elite and protest segments of the Russian social network, "Vkontakte", as an object of analysis. We use network analysis to examine how the network appeared and occurred during the electoral period, as well as how such networks have changed 18 months later. The study of the transformations of the protest segments showed a significant shift in civic engagement. One and a half years after the electoral cycle of 2011\xe2\x80\x932012, the network protest groups institutionalized in NGOs or, at least, in the civil initiatives of different areas: election observation, anti-corruption activity and local issues, etc.']
['Travis  Kriplean', 'Building Interpretable Discussions: For Effective Public Engagement', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1753898&preflayout=flat', "Shifts in the culture of civic engagement, technologies and practices surrounding social media, and pressure from political leaders have ignited a movement amongst gov't agencies to extend their efforts for obtaining input on public issues. These projects face serious challenges related to scale of participation and political capture, though collaborative efforts elsewhere suggest we may be able to support interactions amongst large numbers of people. Instead of emphasizing the exchange of individual messages and voting, I propose that systems should be designed to support the cooperative production of discussions."]
['Solomon  Bisker and Mark  Gross and Donald  Carter and Eric  Paulos and Stacey  Kuznetsov', 'Personal, Public: Using DIY to Explore Citizen-led Efforts in Urban Computing', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1754016&preflayout=flat', "As communities develop technological literacy and explore how technology can impact their lives, the future of urban computing will come from grass-roots initiatives in addition to traditional top-down urban planning. To this end, we aim to engage the do-it- yourself (DIY) community in exploring how individuals can add technology to their communities. As design probes into this space, we have built prototype devices around off-the-shelf technology, open-ended interactions and simple engineering techniques familiar to the DIY community. Through evolving these devices with both the technical DIY community and Pittsburgh's local communities, we hope to spark citizen-led efforts in bringing novel applications of computing to our communities."]
['Paul  Dunphy and Johannes  Sch&#246;ning and James  Nicholson and Patrick  Olivier', 'Captchat: A Messaging Tool to Frustrate Ubiquitous Surveillance', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2732515&preflayout=flat', 'There is currently a widespread uncertainty regarding the ability of citizens to control privacy online in the face of ubiquitous surveillance. This is a huge and complex societal problem. Despite the multi-faceted nature of the problem, we propose that HCI researchers can still make a positive contribution in this space through the design of technologies that support citizens to engage with issues of surveillance. In this paper we describe the design of a messaging application called Captchat. Captchat enables people to send everyday messages embedded into images, with the added ability to apply visual distortions to the message to resemble an online CAPTCHA. We propose the chief benefit would be that Captchat messages (with potentially "one-time" distortions) can increase the difficulty for algorithms to index private messages and necessitate the involvement of much more costly human labor in the surveillance process. We developed a prototype and conducted a user study; the results suggest that people were likely to create Captchat messages that were difficult to index for an OCR package but still easy to understand by humans, even without explicit instructions to interact \'securely\' with the application. While more work is still required to understand the limitations of Captchat, we hope it can open discussion on how HCI researchers can respond to the challenges faced from ubiquitous surveillance.']
['Caroline  Hummels and Ambra  Trotto', 'Hephaestus and the Senses', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2479528&preflayout=flat', 'The need for transformative collaboration among cross-disciplinary stakeholders is becoming paramount since the complexity of designing (intelligent) systems, products and services has increased rapidly the last decade. Inspired by phenomenology, pragmatism and embodied cognition, we explore how we can use embodiment and skilful coping to connect people and to catalyse a constructive design "conversation" among people with different backgrounds (Hummels, 2012). During a two-weeks workshop with Master students at the Dept. of Industrial Design at the Eindhoven University of Technology, we developed six different interactive Engagement Probes: open, creative and playful tools aimed at engaging people in a design process more concrete and effective than a brainstorm session. These Engagement Probes have been validated in a five-hour workshop Hephaestus and the Senses, in which 80 participants from different background have used them as a mean to ignite their design process. Every team started to meet and getting to know each other in a playful way using their bodies through one of the Engagement Probes. Thereupon, they designed and prototyped in teams of 4-6 persons, an artefact for citizens to socially connect through their senses. The results of the workshop show that the Probes stimulate engagement, help people to get familiar and connect in a short period of time, and inspire and boost a design process with an emphasis on embodiment and tangibility (Trotto and Hummels, submitted).']
['Elizabeth  Daly and Sheena  Erete and Rosta  Farzan and Gary  Hsieh and Cliff  Lampe and Claudia  Lopez and Andres  Monroy-Hernandez and Daniele  Quercia and Raz  Schwartz and Amy  Voida', 'Supporting Cities, Neighborhoods, and Local Communities with Information and Communication Technologies', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2685556&preflayout=flat', "Challenges of the local context such as encouraging civic engagement and facilitating collaboration to address local issues have motivated researchers and practitioners to explore the role of technologies in supporting life in cities, neighborhoods, and local communities. The goal of this workshop is to open a discussion on how to design, build and study ICT infrastructures and infrastructuring processes that contributes to this effort. We aim to create a publicly accessible repository of infrastructuring tools and to facilitate the cross-pollination of ideas about technology in local contexts among the researchers, practitioners, and residents interested in this area. At the workshop, participants will collaborate with Vancouver's residents and technology practitioners in order to explore the past, present, and future of research in this space; co- construct an infrastructuring tools repository; discuss key information challenges of local communities; and brainstorm solutions and opportunities to address them. Discussion and ideas generated will be archived online to be available to the larger research community and to local community advocates and activists."]
['David  Applegate', 'Science in Times of Crisis: Delivering Situational Awareness to Emergency Managers and the Public when Disaster Strikes', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2345319&preflayout=flat', "When the White House National Science and Technology Council laid out a series of grand challenges for disaster reduction, the first was to provide hazard and disaster information where and when it is needed. Earth observation and monitoring capabilities are only as good as their ability to reach those in harm's way and inform those who must respond when disaster strikes. At the U. S. Geological Survey (USGS), our scientists work on many different natural hazards across the US and around the globe in close collaboration with federal, state and academic partners. We support monitoring networks, generate hazard assessments, and study the natural processes and societal factors that shape the risks we face from hazard events.The USGS has delegated federal responsibility to provide notifications and warnings for geologic hazards, including earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and landslides. For a number of other hazards, USGS monitoring capabilities support the statutory responsibilities of our partners. Data from USGS national and global seismic networks are fed directly to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) tsunami warning centers. USGS streamgages and storm-surge monitors support NOAA's flood and severe weather warnings, including those for hurricanes. The USGS maintains a network of 14 geomagnetic observatories around the US and its territories, which are used by NOAA and the U. S. Air Force to measure the intensity of geomagnetic storms caused by solar flares and other space weather.For earthquakes, the USGS Advanced National Seismic System generates situational awareness tools that include e-mail and text alerts to over 300,000 subscribers worldwide and the Prompt Assessment of Global Earthquakes for Response (PAGER) system's rapid estimates of fatalities and economic losses to help focus and prioritize response. Disaster information has increasingly become a two-way flow thanks to crowdsourcing and social media. The USGS actively engages with the public, who report on what they experienced through our Did You Feel It website. Tens of thousands of these reports come in after widely felt earthquakes, and that citizen science information is then used to augment instrumental data to refine impact estimates.For volcanoes, the USGS is modernizing and expanding its monitoring capabilities through the National Volcano Early Warning System. Common nationwide alerts and notifications characterize the threats to aviation and nearby communities due to unrest and eruptive activity at the 169 active U. S. volcanoes. For landslides, a prototype debris-flow warning system has been established in southern California in partnership with NOAA with plans to expand up the West Coast.USGS geospatial information supports response operations for wildfires and many other types of disasters. The web-based GeoMAC application provides fire managers and increasingly the public with current geospatial information on the status, location, and proximity of wildfires to natural resources, property, and infrastructure. Through its Hazard Data Distribution System, the USGS coordinates the acquisition and provision of satellite imagery and authoritative geospatial information for use in disaster preparations, rescue and relief operations, damage assessments, and reconstruction efforts.Millions of people worldwide look to USGS for rapid, reliable hazard information, either directly or through our partners. We are continually looking for ways to innovate in the face of ever-increasing expectations to deliver the right information to the right people at the right time."]
['Bryan  Semaan and Heather  Faucett and Scott P. Robertson and Misa  Maruyama and Sara  Douglas', 'Designing Political Deliberation Environments to Support Interactions in the Public Sphere', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2702403&preflayout=flat', 'Little is known about the challenges and successes people face when piecing together multiple social media to interact in the online public sphere when: seeking information, disseminating information, and engaging in political discussions. We interviewed 29 US citizens and conducted 17 talk-out-loud sessions with people who were using one or more social media technologies, such as Facebook and Twitter, to interact in the online public sphere. We identified a number of challenges and workarounds related to public sphere interactions, and used our findings to formulate requirements for new political environments that support the interactions in the public sphere. Through evolving requirements generation, we developed a new political deliberation technology, dubbed Poli, which is an integrated social media environment with the potential to enable more effective interactions in the public sphere. We discuss several remaining questions and limitations to our tool that will drive future work.']
['Craig H. Ganoe and Harold R. Robinson and Michael A. Horning and Xiaoyan  Xie and John M. Carroll', 'Mobile Awareness and Participation in Community-oriented Activities', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1823868&preflayout=flat', 'We describe the iterative design of a location-sensitive mobile application for community engagement and its use at two consecutive community-oriented "First Night" (New Year\'s Eve) events. Based on initial analysis of personal status posts, blog posts, and semi-structured interviews, we show that providing users with mobile tools relevant to time and locational contexts in their community can scaffold engagement within a community. In the second year of the study we draw from server log data after the event was promoted for public use. Enhancements to the design are discussed to further support civic participation in distributed community contexts, and design lessons are drawn.']
['Susan  Feather-Gannon and James  Lawler and Pauline  Mosley and Jean F. Coppola', 'Community Empowering Service-learning Courses Through 21st Century Technologies', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2047622&preflayout=flat', 'This panel will include a historical perspective of IT service-learning (SL) courses at a multi-campus university followed by specific descriptions of the challenges and rewards of designing and facilitating courses that foster civic engagement. The courses covered will include the earliest course in the SL repertoire, Computers for Human Empowerment, and a course that helps higher-functioning (less impaired) computer science high school students with disabilities in learning advanced technology skills and life planning and personal productivity skills where assistive communication devices are tailored to each student. Also included will be a discussion of Problem Salving Using LEGO Robotics in which robotics technology is being integrated into science and technology (STEM) courses at the New York School for the Deaf. Intergenerational Computing, which was showcased on CBS News recently, will be highlighted in this panel discussion.']
['David L. White and Roy P. Pargas and Alex T. Chow and Juang  Chong and Michelle  Cook and Irfan  Tak', 'The Vanishing Firefly Project: Engaging Citizen Scientists with a Mobile Technology and Real-time Reporting Framework', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2676563&preflayout=flat', 'Fireflies are a unique part of the natural landscape at a global scale. Urban development and changes in the landscape can negatively affect firefly distribution and abundance. Assessment of firefly abundance through counts of bioluminescence flashes provides an environmental quality indicator that can be easily observed and quantified by citizen scientists. Researchers at Clemson University, collaborating with resources managers, educators and teachers initiated the Vanishing Firefly Project to engage citizen scientists with the following goals: (1) Science Inquiry-Engage citizens in scientific practices to understand the impacts of urbanization on environmental quality; (2) Service Learning-Increase the skill of citizens in making critical, scientific and informed decisions through community and service activities; (3) Sustainability-Protect natural habitats through effective land and resource management practices and (4) Stewardship-Provide opportunities for citizens to participate in environmental and sustainability studies and activities.The project began in 2010, and was initially a Field Day located in Georgetown, South Carolina, USA. Since then, the project has grown from a single day event, to a statewide field survey, and now a global event in 2014. The 2010 efforts were local and to realize our goals would require increasing citizen science participation from one location in South Carolina to a regional scale. Several issues were to be addressed that varied from technology development, data quality and management, citizen scientist training and motivation for volunteers. Our initial technology framework consisted of a single Google Docs webform that allowed users to submit their firefly counts, but we had no ability to engage volunteers during and after the initial submission. The technology framework at this time (2014) now consists of an iOS app, Android app and a webform that submit firefly counts, firefly behavior, ambient light measurements (iOS and Android app only) and habitat type to a real-time reporting and geospatial data management system. Our efforts have leveraged social media platforms including Facebook, Twitter and YouTube to support training, education and engagement. This paper describes project activities focusing on how our technology framework has developed and matured to increase the scope, reach and capability of citizen scientists participating in the Vanishing Firefly Project.']
['Oded  Nov and Ofer  Arazy and David  Anderson', 'Dusting for Science: Motivation and Participation of Digital Citizen Science Volunteers', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1940771&preflayout=flat', "Digital citizen science offers a low-cost way to strengthen the scientific infrastructure, and engage members of the public in science. It is based on two pillars:(1)a technological pillar, which involves developing computer systems to manage large amounts of distributed resources, and (2) a motivational pillar, which involves attracting and retaining volunteers who would contribute their skills, time, and effort to a scientific cause. While the technological dimension has been widely studied, the motivational dimension received little attention to date. To address this gap, we surveyed volunteers at Stardust@home a digital citizen science project, in which volunteers classify online images from NASA's Stardust spacecraft. We found that collective and intrinsic motivations are the most salient motivational factors, whereas reward motives seem to be less relevant. We also found that intrinsic and norm-oriented motives are most strongly associated with participation intentions, which were, in turn, found to be associated with participation effort. Implications for research and practice are discussed."]
['Saiph  Savage and Andr&#233;s  Monroy-Hern&#225;ndez', "Participatory Militias: An Analysis of an Armed Movement's Online Audience", 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2675295&preflayout=flat', 'Armed groups of civilians known as "self-defense forces" have ousted the powerful Knights Templar drug cartel from several towns in Michoac\xc3\xa1n. This militia uprising has unfolded on social media, particularly in the "VXM" ("Valor por Michoac\xc3\xa1n," Spanish for "Courage for Michoac\xc3\xa1n") Facebook page, gathering more than 170,000 fans. Previous work on the Drug War has documented the use of social media for real-time reports of violent clashes. However, VXM goes one step further by taking on a pro-militia propagandist role, engaging in two-way communication with its audience. This paper presents a descriptive analysis of VXM and its audience. We examined nine months of posts, from VXM\'s inception until May 2014, totaling 6,000 posts by VXM administrators and more than 108,000 comments from its audience. We describe the main conversation themes, post frequency and relationships with offline events and public figures. We also characterize the behavior of VXM\'s most active audience members. Our work illustrates VXM\'s online mobilization strategies, and how its audience takes part in defining the narrative of this armed conflict. We conclude by discussing possible applications of our findings for the design of future communication technologies.']
['Andrew  Hilts and Eric  Yu', 'Modeling Social Media Support for the Elicitation of Citizen Opinion', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1835983&preflayout=flat', "Social media can be employed as powerful tools for enabling broad participation in public policy making. However, variations in the design of a social media technology system can lead to different levels or kinds of engagement, including low participation or polarized interchanges. The complex motivations, expectations, and actions among various actors in political communication need to be considered as 'make-or-break' factors in the design of such systems.This paper uses the i* modeling framework to analyse the impact that alternative configurations of a social media technology can have on the goals and relationships of the actors involved. The framework is applied to a website devoted to the deliberation of climate change issues. The intentional qualities that guide the actors in these discussions are derived from a review of the literature on e-government, on means for eliciting citizen opinion, and on the social aspects of online discussion."]
['Ricardo  Matheus and Manuella Maia Ribeiro', 'Public Online Consultation of Federal Ministries and Federal Regulatory Agencies in Brazil', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1693127&preflayout=flat', 'The adoption of Internet based tools for public consultation had increased in recent years. Regulatory agencies and ministries use such features as a means to broaden and deepen citizen participation, transparency and social engagement in shaping federal public policy. This paper presents a study of all the regulatory agencies and Ministries of Brazil and compares them to identify the level of influence participatory involvement of social actors have on their public policy formulation process.']
['Ban  Al-Ani and Gloria  Mark and Bryan  Semaan', 'Blogging in a Region of Conflict: Supporting Transition to Recovery', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1753485&preflayout=flat', "The blogosphere is changing how people experience war and conflict. We conducted an analysis of 125 blogs written by Iraqi citizens experiencing extreme disruption in their country. We used Hoffman's [8] stages of recovery model to understand how blogs support people in a region where conflict is occurring. We found that blogs create a safe virtual environment where people could interact, free of the violence in the physical environment and of the strict social norms of their changing society in wartime. Second, blogs enable a large network of global support through their interactive and personal nature. Third, blogs enable people experiencing a conflict to engage in dialogue with people outside their borders to discuss their situation. We discuss how blogs enable people to collaboratively interpret conflict through communities of interest and discussion with those who comment. We discuss how technology can better support blog use in a global environment."]
['Jorge Ferreira Franco and Roseli  de Deus Lopes', "Three-dimensional Digital Enviroments and Computer Graphics Influencing K-12 Individuals' Digital Literacy Development and Interdisciplinary Lifelong Learning", 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1666626&preflayout=flat', "Three-dimensional digital environments and computer graphics technology accessibility and influence on individuals' life have increased in the last few years. For instance, game technology has influenced children's lifestyle. Due to that we have attempted to use 3D digital technology related to Web-based Virtual Reality to support learning and teaching actions in the context of K-12 Education.In this paper, we present educational actions that we have carried out for improving K-12 children and educators' digital literacy with focus on ongoing work developments and results.We have achieved qualitative results, showing an enormous potential for stimulating individuals' motivation/will and development in places under social and economic disadvantage. The results have been reached through computer supported collaborative and interdisciplinary learning experiences; young children's cognitive and technical skills development for using Web-based Virtual Reality tools and techniques with autonomy; including basic and higher education collaborative work.We have observed an increase on individuals' engagement with technology, which has supported ones' sustainable knowledge based interactions and technical skills improvements in diverse contexts. Citizens' technical knowledge domain has brought about ones' awareness and cultural transformation related to use information and communication resources better as lifelong learning companion as well as approximating individuals from arts, culture, science and contemporary technology."]
['Michael L. Best and Amanda  Meng', 'Twitter Democracy: Policy Versus Identity Politics in Three Emerging African Democracies', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2738017&preflayout=flat', 'Social media offers new ways for citizens to discuss and debate politics and engage in the democratic process. These online systems could be places for rich policy relevant debate, which is favored by scholars of deliberative democracy. Alternatively, social media might be a platform for an identity driven form of political discourse that is routinely scorned by scholars of democracy. To examine these two possibilities, we analyzed tweets sent during three national elections, the defining participatory process of democracy. Our dataset includes over 760,000 tweets gathered during national elections in Nigeria, Ghana and Kenya from 2011 to 2013. In order to analyze the degree to which Twitter was being used for policy relevant discussion we developed policy term sets through a text analysis of the major political party platforms. To examine the amount of discourse focused on identity issues we created identity term sets based upon national religious, tribal, and regional differences. In Nigeria, where divisive identity politics feed violence and electoral misconduct, discussion of tribe, region, and religion dominate mentions of platform policies. In contrast Ghanaians, who enjoy the most robust democracy of the three countries, were seven times more likely to discuss policy issues rather than identity. Kenyan democracy is still undergoing consolidation, and tweets again reflect this, with almost as many tweets devoted to tribal identity as campaign policy. These findings suggest that social media discussions may echo the state of democratic deepening found in a country during its national elections.']
['Andrea  Wiggins', 'Free As in Puppies: Compensating for Ict Constraints in Citizen Science', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2441942&preflayout=flat', 'Citizen science is a form of collaborative research engaging the public with professional scientists. Information and communication technologies (ICT) are a leading factor in the recent spread of this phenomenon. A common assumption is that money and ICT are the ideal solutions to issues of data quality and participant engagement. The reality is instead that resource limitations often require adopting suboptimal ICT, including tools that are "free as in puppies" with hidden costs from poor usability and lack of appropriate functionality.A comparative case study of three citizen science projects, eBird, The Great Sunflower Project, and Mountain Watch, found that projects with few ICT resources employed a broader range of strategies to address these issues than expected. The most practical and effective strategies integrated available ICT with other resources to open up new solutions and options for supporting citizen science outcomes in spite of resource limitations.']
['Henry Been-Lirn  Duh and Ellen Yi-Luen  Do and Mark  Billinghurst and Francis  Quek and Vivian Hsueh-Hua  Chen', 'Senior-friendly Technologies: Interaction Design for Senior Users', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1754187&preflayout=flat', 'The elderly represent a valid group of users who can potentially benefit greatly from engaging with technology, such as healthcare systems or playing digital games. Yet, less attention has been given to the significance of senior citizens as technology users, as compared to the common younger population. In an effort to fill in the gap, this workshop aims to investigate the design of technology for senior citizens. To provide for more focused, thus more productive discussion, we will use elderly mobile phone games as a case in point here. The overarching objective is to understand what can help to make for better and more meaningful use of interactive applications and technology by the elderly, for instance, games on the mobile phone.']
['Matthias  Korn and Jon  Back', 'Talking It Further: From Feelings and Memories to Civic Discussions in and About Places', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2399046&preflayout=flat', "Civic engagement systems to date frequently focus on purely rational aspects of deliberation void of emotions. In order to empower youth in a largely immigrant and lower-income neighborhood, we designed a location-based storytelling and story experiencing system for web-enabled mobile phones. The system is based on a novel concept of pervasive play where stories emerge and develop on several dimensions -- most notably for our design a geographical one. This system functions as a research instrument in this paper. Through a qualitative analysis of the comments made through the system, we find (1) memories, feelings, and attitudes to be prime means of expression for youth, (2) the expression of such personal emotions leading to civic discussions, and (3) such discussions expanding over geographic areas in the neighborhood. Consequently, we argue for an approach to locative civic engagement systems that takes a vantage point in youth's emotions rather than a very rational and dry approach to deliberation."]
['Morito  Matsuoka and Naonori  Ueda and Hideyuki  Tokuda and Rodger  Lea and Luis  Mu&#241;oz', "SmartCities'15: International Workshop on Smart Cities: People, Technology and Data", 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2816941&preflayout=flat', 'We propose the First International Workshop on Smart Cities: People, Technology and Data. Cities are not machines, yet too many Smart City projects focus on efficiency and optimization and treat people as mindless users of technology. This workshop focuses on the complex interplay between technologies, data and citizens, exploring how citizens can be engaged to co-design Smart City services and how technology can be harnessed to meet their needs. By soliciting experiences papers from leading Smart City testbeds, and then encouraging detailed discussion by practitioners, we aim to develop guidelines and lessons that grow the Smart City Community.']
['Susanne  B&#248;dker and P&#228;r-Ola  Zander', 'Participation in Design Between Public Sector and Local Communities', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2768546&preflayout=flat', 'This paper discusses three cases where design was carried out at the intersection between public sector and citizen communities. Based on three dominant traditions meeting there--public (municipal) decision-making, Web 2.0 and participatory design--we identify challenges and solutions regarding participation and engagement of municipal workers and citizens. While this intersection is exactly where a new form of democratic participation could develop, the three traditions were, nonetheless, far from easily combined in the specific cases. The challenges that we have identified are to: Identify win-win situations, rather than to maximize participation; to work with motivation for long-term projects across municipality and communities; to identify and work with early movers, and not just representative citizens; and to create space for local municipal agencies to develop bottom-up technological solutions. The multiplicity of co-existing traditions of involvement need more focus in the future development of participatory design.']
['Sarah  Gallacher and Connie  Golsteijn and Vaiva  Kalnikaite and Steven  Houben and Rose  Johnson and Daniel  Harrison and Nicolai  Marquardt', 'SenCity 2: Visualizing the Hidden Pulse of a City', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2807950&preflayout=flat', 'Following the success of the first SenCity workshop at UbiComp 2013, which focused on urban sensing technologies, the SenCity 2 workshop will focus on visualizing collected data in new ways. Specifically we will focus on physical forms of data visualizations using various mediums and actuation to explore how sensed data could be presented back to urban citizens in engaging and experiential ways. Participants will collaboratively apply practical research and creative flair at this hands-on workshop to design and prototype physical visualizations, bringing to life the hidden pulse of Osaka.']
['P. S. Acharya and S. K. Ghosh and S. C. De Sarkar', 'Natural Resources Data Management System (NRDMS): A Suite of Web-accessible Geo-spatial Data Processing Tools for e-Governance in India', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1999380&preflayout=flat', "The National e-Governance Plan (NeGP) of India aims at making all government services accessible to the citizens through common service delivery outlets. It also seeks to ensure efficiency, transparency, and reliability of such services at affordable costs. A huge nationwide ICT infrastructure comprising of more than one lakh Common Service Centres (CSCs) for approximately six lakh villages, Statewide Area Networks (SWAN) for network connectivity to the lowest administrative levels, and State Data Centres (SDCs) for hosting state level e-Governance applications and data are thus being set up. Government departments, like, Land Records, Police, Property Registration, Agriculture, Employment, Watershed Management, Disaster Management, and local level elected bodies like Panchayats (village clusters) and Municipalities etc. involving geographic information, geo-spatial data and processing tools assume significance.Taking note of this requirement, the Natural Resources Data Management System (NRDMS) programme of Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India aims at setting up Spatial Data Infrastructures (SDIs) and developing a suite of web-accessible geo-spatial data processing tools. The SDIs and the tools are expected to provide information support to the efficient delivery of e-services under the NeGP. Research & Development (R & D) in the emerging areas of Geo Information Science and Technology are promoted to continually upgrade the tools and techniques. Some of the thrust areas for R & D include Geo-spatial Cloud Computing, Geo-Service Chaining, Geo-visualisation and Computer Cartography, Geo-Semantic Web, Spatio-temporal Data Modelling, Uncertainty in Geo-Spatial Data, Analytical/Process Modelling and Spatial Data Handling (SDI) etc. Specialized research and training centres are being set up in different parts of the country to facilitate capacity building.Sharing of spatial data by data providing agencies in the framework of Spatial Data Infrastructure (SDI) is an essential requirement in e-services delivery. District and state geo-portal prototypes have been developed using OGC/ISO specifications and their utility demonstrated to end user agencies. Specific studies have been completed in areas like Cartographic Generalization, Enterprise GIS, and Sensor Web Enablement etc. in order to demonstrate the utility of web-based geo-spatial data processing tools in e-Governance service delivery. In a typical district or a state, different line departments and agencies acquire and process spatial data sets for field/local level applications. Some of these data sets relate to watersheds, plots, weather, irrigation, health, education etc. Inadequate access to these data sets inhibits their use and integration with other relevant layers. The geo-portals are being upgraded with metadata from the line departments to facilitate discovery of geo-spatial data by using catalogue service on web (CSW). The geo-portals have been made accessible through the single window access mechanism of the India Geo Portal of the National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI).In order to provide map service on the web for a city area primarily consisting of features like buildings and roads, there is a need for generalizing features by removing unnecessary details. Cartographic generalization plays an important role in overcoming these effects and preserves the required legibility considering the need for communicating (maps) geographical data to mobile devices in support of delivery of e-services.In the coming years, NRDMS will gear itself towards covering application sectors like 'Sustainable Agriculture' and 'Disaster Management', and engaging stakeholders attention in the development and utilization of geo-spatial data processing tools and technologies in different real-life applications."]
['Sarah  Fox and Christopher  Le Dantec', 'Community Historians: Scaffolding Community Engagement Through Culture and Heritage', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2598563&preflayout=flat', 'This paper describes the Community Historians project, which was a series of public, participatory workshops focused on conceptualizing and enacting forms of citizen engagement through technology. The goal of the project was to provide the space and resources to discover, discuss, and document inherent communal values and tangible resources present in a low-income community. The result of the first workshop was an interactive, alternative asset map of the area. The second workshop involved residents building their own digital cameras from component parts. The purpose of these activities was to reinforce critical thought about how technology affected the lives of residents and to empower adaptation of technology as a tool for communal development.']
['Taewoo  Nam and Theresa A. Pardo', 'Conceptualizing Smart City with Dimensions of Technology, People, and Institutions', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2037602&preflayout=flat', 'This conceptual paper discusses how we can consider a particular city as a smart one, drawing on recent practices to make cities smart. A set of the common multidimensional components underlying the smart city concept and the core factors for a successful smart city initiative is identified by exploring current working definitions of smart city and a diversity of various conceptual relatives similar to smart city. The paper offers strategic principles aligning to the three main dimensions (technology, people, and institutions) of smart city: integration of infrastructures and technology-mediated services, social learning for strengthening human infrastructure, and governance for institutional improvement and citizen engagement.']
['Jeremy  Millard', 'ICT-enabled Public Sector Innovation: Trends and Prospects', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2591901&preflayout=flat', "This experience paper is a personal thinkpiece which outlines many of the main issues and discussions taking place in Europe and elsewhere about the future of the public sector and how it can respond positively to some of the acute challenges it faces in light of the financial crisis and other global challenges. The paper examines how ICT-enabled public sector innovation highlights concepts like open governance, public value, government as a platform, open assets, open services and open engagement. It develops a vision of an 'open governance framework', moving beyond 'new public management', based on ICT-enabled societal-wide collaboration. It recognises that although the public sector can in principle create public value on its own, its potential to do so is greatly enhanced and extended by direct cooperation with other actors, or by facilitating public value creation by other actors on their own. It also examines the role of bottom-up innovation and public policy experimentation, as well as the need to focus on empowering civil servants and changing public sector working practices and mindsets."]
['Linlin  You and Gianmario  Motta and Kaixu  Liu and Tianyi  Ma', 'CITY FEED: A Pilot System of Citizen-Sourcing for City Issue Management', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2873064&preflayout=flat', 'Crowdsourcing implies user collaboration and engagement, which fosters a renewal of city governance processes. In this article, we address a subset of crowdsourcing, named citizen-sourcing, where citizens interact with authorities collaboratively and actively. Many systems have experimented citizen-sourcing in city governance processes; however, their maturity levels are mixed. In order to focus on the service maturity, we introduce a city service maturity framework that contains five levels of service support and two levels of information integration. As an example, we introduce CITY FEED, which implements citizen-sourcing in city issue management process. In order to support such process, CITY FEED supports all levels of the maturity framework (publishing, transacting, interacting, collaborating, and evaluating) and integrates related information relationally and heterogeneously. In order to integrate heterogeneous information, it implements a threefold feed deduplication mechanism based on the geographic, text semantic, and image similarities of feeds. Currently, CITY FEED is in a pilot stage.']
['In&#234;s  Rodolfo and Liliana  Laranjo and Nuno  Correia and Carlos  Duarte', 'Design Strategy for a National Integrated Personal Health Record', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2641205&preflayout=flat', 'This paper addresses the timely and internationally relevant problem of designing a national integrated personal health record. Health care reforms around the world are changing the way health-related activities are performed. The goal is to empower patients to gain control of their healthcare information and foster health care team collaboration through integrated national health information systems. To accomplish this goal it is urgent to engage users in the use of these platforms. We present the process for creating a meaningful design strategy for a citizen portal that incorporates an integrated personal health record. This portal is part of a national health data platform cross-channel experience, connecting health care providers with patients, counting over 750,000 users. We applied a user experience design process to create an effective design solution for an integrated PHR and prototype that can be extended to the development of this new type of PHR.']
['Stacey  Kuznetsov and Aniket  Kittur and Eric  Paulos', 'Biological Citizen Publics: Personal Genetics As a Site of Public Engagement with Science', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2757246&preflayout=flat', 'Low-cost genetic sequencing, coupled with novel social media platforms and visualization techniques, present a new frontier for scientific participation, whereby people can learn, share, and act on data embedded within their own bodies. Our study of 23andMe, a popular genetic testing service, reveals how users make sense of and contextualize their genetic results, critique and evaluate the underlying research, and reflect on the broader implications of genetic testing. We frame user groups as citizen science publicsgroups that coalesce around scientific issues and work towards resolving shared concerns. Our findings show that personal genetics serves as a site for public engagement with science, whereby communities of biological citizens creatively interpret, debate, and act on professional research. We conclude with design trajectories at the intersection of genetics and creativity support tools: platforms for aggregating hybrid knowledge; tools for creative reflection on professional science; and strategies for supporting collaborations across communities.']
['Scott P. Robertson and Elizabeth A. Buie and Dianne  Murray', 'Interaction Design for Citizen Engagement and Digital Government', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2037634&preflayout=flat', 'Interaction design is an area within the larger field of human-computer interaction (HCI) that stresses user experience as central to the process of designing, creating, and evaluating interactive systems. In this half-day workshop, participants will explore how techniques and theories used in interaction design could be employed to increase and deepen citizen engagement and to make digital government more responsive and effective. Participants will also discuss broader issues related to the challenges of rapid technology change, continuous changes in user profiles and expectations, and the need for participatory iterative design practice in the development of e-govemment and e-participation systems.']
['Dana  Rotman and Jenny  Preece and Jen  Hammock and Kezee  Procita and Derek  Hansen and Cynthia  Parr and Darcy  Lewis and David  Jacobs', 'Dynamic Changes in Motivation in Collaborative Citizen-science Projects', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2145238&preflayout=flat', 'Online citizen science projects engage volunteers in collecting, analyzing, and curating scientific data. Existing projects have demonstrated the value of using volunteers to collect data, but few projects have reached the full collaborative potential of scientists and volunteers. Understanding the shared and unique motivations of these two groups can help designers establish the technical and social infrastructures needed to promote effective partnerships. We present findings from a study of the motivational factors affecting participation in ecological citizen science projects. We show that volunteers are motivated by a complex framework of factors that dynamically change throughout their cycle of work on scientific projects; this motivational framework is strongly affected by personal interests as well as external factors such as attribution and acknowledgment. Identifying the pivotal points of motivational shift and addressing them in the design of citizen-science systems will facilitate improved collaboration between scientists and volunteers.']
['Rosta  Farzan and Robert E. Kraut', "Wikipedia Classroom Experiment: Bidirectional Benefits of Students' Engagement in Online Production Communities", 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2470765&preflayout=flat', "Over the last decade, a citizen science movement has tried to engage students, laymen and other non-scientists in the production of science. However, there has been less attention in citizen science projects to use the public to disseminate scientific knowledge. Wikipedia provides a platform to study engagement of citizen scientists in knowledge dissemination. College and university students are especially appropriate members of the public to write science articles, because of the course-work and mentorship they receive from faculty. This paper describes a project to support students' writing of scientific articles in Wikipedia. In collaboration with a scientific association, we involved 640 students from 36 courses in editing scientific articles on Wikipedia. This paper provides details in the design of the program and our quantitative and qualitative approaches to evaluating it. Our results show that the Wikipedia classroom experiment benefits both the Wikipedia community and students. Undergraduate and graduate students substantially improved the scientific content of over 800 articles, at a level of quality indistinguishable from content written by PhD experts. Both students and faculty endorsed the motivational benefits of an authentic writing experience that would be read by thousands of people."]
['Diana  Burley', 'Information Technology in Social Entrepreneurship: The Role and the Reality', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1565796&preflayout=flat', 'Social entrepreneurship is increasingly seen as a critical component of the global conversation on volunteerism and civic engagement. The purpose of this article is to lay the groundwork for a larger conversation on the role of information technology in social entrepreneurship by summarizing the discussions among participants of a recent conference on the subject. Social networking and information sharing were identified as the most critical roles of IT in support of social entrepreneurship. However, in order to realize the full potential of these roles, conference participants suggested that four key challenges must be addressed: access, capacity, commonality, and the scholar-practitioner link.']
['Dong-Po  Deng and Tyng-Ruey  Chuang and Kwang-Tsao  Shao and Guan-Shuo  Mai and Te-En  Lin and Rob  Lemmens and Cheng-Hsin  Hsu and Hsu-Hong  Lin and Menno-Jan  Kraak', 'Using Social Media for Collaborative Species Identification and Occurrence: Issues, Methods, and Tools', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2442957&preflayout=flat', 'The emergence of social media enables people to interact with others on the web in ways that are media-rich ("updates" or "posts" can be text, photo, audio, video, etc), time-shifted (correspondence need not happen at once or within a pre-defined time frame), and social in nature. By utilizing social media, citizen science projects can potentially engage many participants to contribute their observations covering a large geographic region and over a long time period. This is an improvement, for example, over traditional biodiversity surveys which typically involve relatively few people in confined regions and periods.As social media is not designed for scientific data collection and analysis, there is a problem in transferring unstructured information items (e.g. free-form text, unidentified images, etc.) often found in social media to structured data records for scientific tasks. To help bridge this gap, we propose an approach comprised of three steps: (1) Information Extraction, (2) Information Formalization, and (3) Information Reuse. We apply this approach to processing posts and comments from two Facebook interest groups on species observations. Our study demonstrates that with principled methods and proper tools, crowdsourced social media contents such as those from Facebook interest groups can be used for collaborative species identification and occurrence.']
['Enrique Cusba Garc&#237;a', 'Fostering e-Participation in Colombia', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2591916&preflayout=flat', "This paper describes the framework and initiatives followed by Colombia to foster e-participation. E-participation implies openness and inclusiveness and the current ICT policy provides the basics for the accomplishment of such principles as the progress in infrastructure, access to services, applications and citizens and public servants capacities has enabled citizens' engagement. In addition, e-participation involves the provision of information, consultation and decision-making. The Crystal Ballot Box facilitates those three levels of participation so it becomes a relevant example of active e-participation in Colombia."]
['Christopher M. Mascaro and Sean P. Goggins', 'Brewing Up Citizen Engagement: The Coffee Party on Facebook', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2103357&preflayout=flat', 'With this study we seek to provide an understanding of the discourse and agenda setting practices of an online issue based political group, "Join the Coffee Party Movement" (JCPM) in the United States. The stated goals of JCPM are to establish a place for individuals who identify themselves as disenfranchised to discuss and take action on issues of social and economic policy in the US. JCPM is one example of hundreds of issue-based organizations emerging on Facebook worldwide. Since its inception in January 2010, over 344,000 Facebook members have become followers of the JCPM page. Our analysis of the text of the discourse and the social networks, which emerge on the JCPM page, show three surprising results. First, in contrast to prior studies, significant deliberative discourse among members emerges in this open, public space without prompting. Second, the discourse practices and structure that emerge on the JCPM Facebook page show two types of leadership: Centralized, organizational leadership, and decentralized leadership from participants. Third, we identify two structural characteristics of this virtual political organization using social network analysis of trace data: a) Organizational leaders are not central to discussions of controversial topics; b) Advocacy and dissent behavior in the discussions are reflected in the social network structure. Our findings have implications for the practices and technology designs used to engage citizens through social and participatory media.']
['Fabius  Steinberger and Marcus  Foth and Florian  Alt', 'Vote With Your Feet: Local Community Polling on Urban Screens', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2611015&preflayout=flat', "Falling prices have led to an ongoing spread of public displays in urban areas. Still, they mostly show passive content such as commercials and digital signage. At the same time, technological advances have enabled the creation of interactive displays potentially increasing their attractiveness for the audience, e.g. through providing a platform for civic discourse. This poses considerable challenges, since displays need to communicate the opportunity to engage, motivate the audience to do so, and be easy to use. In this paper we present Vote With Your Feet, a hyperlocal public polling tool for urban screens allowing users to express their opinions. Similar to vox populi interviews on TV or polls on news websites, the tool is meant to reflect the mindset of the community on topics such as current affairs, cultural identity and local matters. It is novel in that it focuses on a situated civic discourse and provides a tangible user interface, tackling the mentioned challenges. It shows one Yes/No question at a time and enables users to vote by stepping on one of two tangible buttons on the ground. This user interface was introduced to attract people's attention and to lower participation barriers. Our field study showed that Vote With Your Feet is perceived as inviting and that it can spark discussions among co-located people."]
['W. Lewis Johnson', 'Developing Intercultural Competence Through Videogames', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1499226&preflayout=flat', 'Effective intercultural collaboration requires intercultural competence. Intercultural competence involves awareness of the differences between cultures, knowledge about the beliefs, values, and practices of other cultures, and the skill to apply that knowledge effortlessly and effectively in interpersonal interactions. Acquiring intercultural competence can involve intensive study of the target culture, as well as immersion in social milieu of the target culture. Anyone who interacts regularly with people of other cultures can benefit from intercultural competence, but not everyone has the time and motivation to engage in lengthy cultural study, or the opportunity to immerse oneself in the other culture for extended periods.The focus of this talk is on the role of learning technologies in promoting intercultural competence. We address the problem of intercultural competence by means of computer-based serious games designed to help learners quickly acquire job-related linguistic and cultural proficiency. Videogame technology is used to create virtual worlds populated by non-player characters that speak and understand the target language, and behave in accordance with the norms of the culture. Conversational artificial intelligence technology enables learners to engage in spoken conversations with the non-player characters. Learners must speak the target language, and behave in a culturally proficient manner, in order to succeed at the game. cultural knowledge and skills, and organize them into curricula that serve as the basis for the game-based courses. Curriculum design focuses on the situations that learners are likely to encounter when interacting with people from the target culture, and tasks that they are likely to want to perform. This context provides a Cultural Lens that focuses curriculum development on the locations, socio-political factors, perspectives, and cultural practices that are most relevant to those situations and tasks. This approach results in courses that enable people to quickly acquire the intercultural skills that are most relevant to their particular needs. In the process they gain enhanced cultural awareness, which can support learners and motivate them to broaden and deepen their knowledge of the target culture. Military personnel engaged in civil affairs and peacekeeping operations are making extensive use of Alelo courses prior to overseas deployments. They report that the linguistic and cultural competence that they gained from the courses had a significant impact on the effectiveness of their operations. For example, a US Marine unit recently reported that it completed a tour of duty in Iraq without a single combat casualty. It attributed its success to its enhanced ability to develop relationships and establish rapport with the local people. We are currently developing a variety of other courses aimed at linguistic and cultural competence. Encounters: Global Chinese is an integrated course in Chinese language and culture, being developed in collaboration with Yale University Press and Chinese International Publishing Group. Rez World, developed in collaboration with Thornton Media, is designed to promote language and culture restoration among Native American tribes. A Web-based course for Voice of America is intended to provide VOA listeners worldwide with an opportunity to develop spoken English communication skills and develop a better understanding of American culture.']
['Ken  Banks', 'Hackers, Fixers and Lone Rangers: The Future of Technology for Development?', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2830651&preflayout=flat', "Classes in social innovation, technology-for-development and design thinking have become increasingly popular in recent years. On the one hand, this might be seen as a good thing. After all, the world needs as many smart, engaged citizens as it can get, particularly when you consider the multitude of challenges we face as a planet. But does a career in social change really begin in the classroom, or out in the real world? How much social change is planned, and how much accidental? And which approach tends to lead to the most meaningful, lasting or impactful solutions? In his talk, Ken Banks will talk about the rise of innovation 'outside the system', and how this is beginning to challenge conventional thinking around social innovation and the source of technology-for-development projects and interventions."]
['', '', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2248326&preflayout=flat', 'On behalf of the organizers, we extend a warm welcome to the first ACM MobiHoc workshop on "Airborne Networks and Communications" to all participants. An airborne network is a mobile network consisting of manned and unmanned air vehicles as well as ground vehicles. The ability of ground and air vehicles to communicate voice, video, and data offers enhanced safety and efficiency for the next generation (NextGen) air transportation systems. Airborne networks can benefit many civilian applications such as air-traffic control, border patrol, and search and rescue missions.This workshop is a result of the ideas that emerged from the meetings held over the past few years on topics that focused on cyber-physical systems (CPS) for air transportation as well as NextGen aviation systems. We believe that the time is right for airborne networking and communications to be part of main stream conferences. We believe that this workshop is an opportunity for researchers engaged in airborne networking and communications to discuss state-of-the-art, share their research results with their peers, and develop directions for future research in this emerging field.Airborne networking is a cyber-physical system. While computation, communication and networking elements form the cyber components of the system, flight-paths, maneuver geometries, and multi-mode resources including ground-based nodes and control stations form the physical components of the CPS. The synergy between the cyber and physical components, if explored and exploited, will significantly enhance the safety and security capabilities of Next Generation air transportation systems. However, fundamental design principles which are needed to explore this synergy do not exist and experimental datasets which are needed to develop such design principles are beyond the reach of academic community.During this workshop, we will hear from experienced speakers coming from the industry, universities, and federal laboratories on topics covering theoretical foundations and models for mobility, connectivity, and coverage, cyber-physical system perspective of airborne networks, airborne/satellite communication and networking platforms and strategies, protocols for secure information sharing, swarming, collaboration, and self-organization, network trials, test-beds, experiments, and measurements and applications of airborne networking to real world domains such as border patrol, air-traffic control, search and rescue missions, and unmanned cargo. We look forward to your active participation in this workshop.']
['', '', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2491260&preflayout=flat', 'On behalf of the organizers, we extend a warm welcome to the second ACM MobiHoc workshop on "Airborne Networks and Communications" to all participants. An airborne network is a mobile network consisting of manned and unmanned air vehicles as well as ground vehicles. The ability of ground and air vehicles to communicate voice, video, and data offers enhanced safety and efficiency for the next generation (NextGen) air transportation systems. Airborne networks can benefit many civilian applications such as air-traffic control, border patrol, and search and rescue missions.This workshop is a result of the ideas that emerged from the meetings held over the past few years on topics that focused on cyber-physical systems (CPS) for air transportation as well as NextGen aviation systems. We believe that this workshop is an opportunity for researchers engaged in airborne networking and communications to discuss state-of-the-art, share their research results with their peers, and develop directions for future research in this emerging field.Airborne networking is a cyber-physical system. While computation, communication and networking elements form the cyber components of the system, flight-paths, maneuver geometries, and multi-mode resources including ground-based nodes and control stations form the physical components of the CPS. The synergy between the cyber and physical components, if explored and exploited, will significantly enhance the safety and security capabilities of Next Generation air transportation systems. However, fundamental design principles which are needed to explore this synergy do not exist and experimental datasets which are needed to develop such design principles are beyond the reach of academic community.During this workshop, we will hear from experienced speakers coming from the industry, universities, and federal laboratories on topics covering theoretical foundations and models for mobility, connectivity, and coverage, cyber-physical system perspective of airborne networks, airborne/satellite communication and networking platforms and strategies, protocols for secure information sharing, swarming, collaboration, and self-organization, network trials, test-beds, experiments, and measurements and applications of airborne networking to real world domains such as border patrol, air-traffic control, search and rescue missions, and unmanned cargo. We look forward to your active participation in this workshop.']
['Juliet  Sprake and Peter  Rogers', 'Crowds, Citizens and Sensors: Process and Practice for Mobilising Learning', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2584576&preflayout=flat', "Participatory sensing is an emerging field in which citizens are empowered by technologies to monitor their own environments. Harvesting and analysing data gathered in response to personal or local enquiries can be seen as an antidote to information provided by official sources. Democratising sensing means that ordinary people can learn about and understand the world around them better and can be a part of the decision-making in improving environments for all. In this paper, we review and describe participatory sensing and discuss this in relation to making a series of prototype tools and applications for mobile users--Located Lexicon, Where's Fenton? and Tall Buildings. In the first of these projects, Located Lexicon, we wanted to find out whether a lexicon of terms derived from user-generated content could enable the formation of Twitter like groups that allow users to engage in finding out more about their location. In the second project, Where's Fenton? we made a publicly available app that involves users in counting the abundance and logging the location of deer in a park. This project focused specifically on anonymity of the user in collecting data for a specific enquiry. In the last project, Tall Buildings, we experimented with using dimensions of altitude, distance and speed to encourage users to physically explore a city from its rooftops. In all of these projects, we experiment with the pedestrian as a human sensor and the methods and roles they may engage in to make new discoveries. The underlying premise for our work is that it is not possible to calibrate people to be identical, so experimenting with crowd-sourced data opens up thinking about the way we observe and learn about the physical environment."]
['', '', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2662155&preflayout=flat', 'Participatory Design is a diverse collection of principles and practices aimed at making technologies, tools, environments, businesses, and social institutions more responsive to human needs. A central tenet of Participatory Design (PD) is the direct involvement of people in the co-design of things and technologies they use and live with. The Participatory Design Conference continues to be the main gathering point of the PD community and an important venue for international discussion of the collaborative, social, and political dimensions of technology innovation and use. Held every two years since 1990, the conference has helped to broaden participatory approaches in design around a variety of arenas, including information and communication technologies, computer supported cooperative work, healthcare, learning, new media and digital culture, community settings, architecture and the urban environment, the arts, visual communication, interaction design and service design to mention some of the fields involved.In the same spirit of past editions, PDC 2014 brings together a multidisciplinary and international group of researchers, practitioners, activists and citizens who both advocate and adopt distinctively participatory approaches. For 2014 the theme selected for the call for papers was "Reflecting Connectedness". The call invited contributors to recognise principles of relationships between people, things and their environment, beyond participation -- a theme that suits very well to be dealt with in Windhoek, Namibia, our host city this year. By \'reflecting connectedness\' in participatory design, the organizing committee wants to acknowledge the influential relations across continents, societies, people, disciplines and time, beyond the direct involvement of stakeholders. The contributions of these proceedings thus aim at highlighting ways in which the value of accumulated experiences in PD and elsewhere over time enrich the field of Participatory Design. The papers presented here also engage in critical debates on what it means to design within and for multilayered networks.']
['Patrick G. Watson and Penny  Duquenoy and Margaret  Brennan and Matt  Jones and James  Walkerdine', 'Towards an Ethical Interaction Design: The Issue of Including Stakeholders in Law-enforcement Software Development', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1738884&preflayout=flat', 'In the public sector (particularly in the UK in light of recent reforms i.e. the Local Government Act 2000, etc.) a greater degree of accountability and public involvement or intervention has become the norm in public infrastructure projects, partially under the rubric of "stakeholder engagement". This paper seeks to discuss public involvement in a law-enforcement technology (Isis), which operates on a covert basis in the detection and prevention of child abuse activities across a number of social networking facilities. Our contribution to the development of Isis is to perform an ethics centered consultation process with stakeholders who will contribute to the design and deployment of the end software package. To that end, we have sought to develop a "Modified Participatory Design" approach, utilizing the knowledge gained from the HCI community with regards to more traditional design projects and adapting this body of work to questions of ethics, privacy, corporate and civic responsibility, monitoring and awareness issues, etc. in an effort to create a fluid and agile communication process between stakeholders and designers, thus taking account of the ethical issues around Isis as design occurs.']
['Alexander  Hanna and Chris  Wells and Peter  Maurer and Lew  Friedland and Dhavan  Shah and J&#246;rg  Matthes', 'Partisan Alignments and Political Polarization Online: A Computational Approach to Understanding the French and US Presidential Elections', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2508438&preflayout=flat', 'With the advent of Twitter and the ability to collect large datasets from this technology, researchers have the opportunity to analyze political participation in cross-national electoral contexts. This paper capitalizes on this capability to examine political polarization and citizen engagement during the US and French presidential campaigns. We use the Twitter Gardenhose collection to filter tweets based on keywords around a 50-day window, from March 19, 2012 to May 8, 2012 for the French election and September 19, 2012 to November 8, 2012 for the US Election, particularly focusing on on engagement during the US and French presidential debates on October 3, 2012 and May 2, 2012, respectively. From these data, we constructed partisan alignments based on hashtag usage and retweet networks. We found evidence of more stark political polarization in the French case, while the US case demonstrated less partisan division. This study elaborates commonalities and contrasts in the use of a major social medium by citizens in contexts that differ in political culture and language but feature similar ideological divides, electoral politics, and campaign contexts. We conclude by discussing the implications of computational social science and "big data" in communications, comparative politics, and political sociology.']
['Phil  Brooker and John  Vines and Selina  Sutton and Julie  Barnett and Tom  Feltwell and Shaun  Lawson', 'Debating Poverty Porn on Twitter: Social Media As a Place for Everyday Socio-Political Talk', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2702291&preflayout=flat', 'This paper presents an empirical investigation of how people appropriated Twitter for socio-political talk in response to a television (TV) portrayal of people supported by state welfare and benefits. Our findings reveal how online discussion during, and in-between, TV broadcasts was characterised by distinctly different qualities, topics and user behaviours. These findings offer design opportunities for social media services to (i) support more balanced real-time commentaries of politically-charged media, (ii) actively promote discussion to continue after, and between, programming; and (iii) incorporate different motivations and attitudes towards socio-political concerns, as well as different practices of communicating those concerns. We contribute to the developing HCI literature on how social media intersects with political and civic engagement and specifically highlight the ways in which Twitter interacts with other forms of media as a site of everyday socio-political talk and debate.']
['Joseph  Mertz', 'Computing for the Social Good and Cultivating Cultures for Ethical Computing', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2809970&preflayout=flat', 'Why develop educational practices involving computing for the social good? Does the field of ethics provide a viable framework for assessing an evaluating such practices? And are projects that involve students in computing for the social good efficacious in the formation of ethical computing professionals? At Carnegie Mellon, we have developed practices to involve a significant number of students in software development projects and consulting engagements for the social good. A consulting course has had over 500 community service-learning engagements in 18 years, and in a software development capstone course our yearly cohort of 60 students work in small teams to develop software for 15+ social service organizations. Our practices have evolved out of our shared vision of what makes a good computing professional, but we would now like to better define, assess, and communicate what the vision is.The NSF has a program solicitation (15-528) entitled Cultivating Cultures for Ethical STEM (CCE STEM) that "funds research projects that identify factors that are efficacious in the formation of ethical STEM researchers in all the fields of science and engineering that NSF supports." It asks: "What constitutes ethical STEM research and practice? Which cultural and institutional contexts promote ethical STEM research and practice and why?" Among the factors they mention are "curricula ... that stress social responsibility and humanitarian goals"; i.e. computing for the social good. And "what practices contribute to the establishment and maintenance of ethical cultures and how can these practices be transferred, extended to, and integrated into other research and learning settings?"To provide some context from my experience, there are two prevalent types of computing-for-the-social-good projects:1. System-based: Projects that address a social-good (e.g. disaster management, public accountability, or medical record management) and are generally released to the public as open source projects (e.g. Sahana, Ushahidi, or OpenMRS).2. Client-based: Projects that custom-build a solution for a nonprofit, school, international NGO, or other social-good organization. For example, helping a nonprofit increase fundraising with a website, or a school improve interaction with its students using a course management system. Often, but not always, these solutions use the open source projects in (1), but in all cases the solution involves much more work than fetching the software.Our consulting and capstone project course use the client-based model. When done well, client-based social-good projects have the potential to enrich student learning in ambiguous real world environments. Students report increased confidence, further development of technical skills, a sense of satisfaction and appreciation for the needs of their partner organizations.Delivery of a tangible benefit to partner organizations is also generally an expected outcome. Providing lasting value to community partners should, in practice, be a key objective of any serious client engagement. However too often, the needs, concerns and ultimate outcomes for community partners are often overlooked or forgotten. Solutions that are incomplete, poorly implemented, poorly documented, inappropriate to the problem at hand or simply unsustainable may provide little or no value to community partners. In fact, these solutions may actually be detrimental to partner organizations.There is significant risk, therefore, that benefits to ICT service learning projects are asymmetric; students generally report significant benefits from the experience, but community based partners may, in fact, find the experience expensive, risky, and potentially harmful to their missions, organizations and employees. Many community partners simply do not have the resources to finish incomplete projects, sustain or maintain complex software or systems, or perform needed application or server administration.We use a capacity-building model of working with a community partner. This is not the let-us-buildyou-a-system model, where students develop and drop in (often unsustainable) technology solutions. Rather, it emphasizes working-with, and weaving solutions into the development partner\'s organization, building their capacity to not only use, but to maintain and evolve their solutions as their needs grow and change.Returning to the bigger question of cultivating a culture of ethical practice, these classes are meant to model an ethic of care in meeting the needs of a nonprofit client whose mission is the social good.They expose students to issues of:- Being truthful in working with the client: not misrepresenting their capabilities nor the robustness of their solution.- Being respectful and not misusing the client\'s time and other resources.- Not taking advantage of their team mates via slacking and free-loading.- Safeguarding the privacy and confidentiality of citizen information in any system they build, and including controls that maintain appropriate privacy and confidentiality.- Not misappropriating software, being aware of licenses, and attributing borrowed work that is otherwise not licensed.- Understanding the role of nonprofit organizations in society. How they are similar and different from for-profit corporations. How they contribute to the social good where markets would not otherwise serve.The NSF solicitation provides an opportunity to support looking at both why we do computing for the social good, and whether these educational practices develop computing professionals who are more aware of the ethical dimensions of their work. The solicitation encourages a comparison across institutions; is SIGCAS a good nexus for building that collaboration?As part of the SIGCAS Symposium, the author shared practices in the consulting and software development capstone courses, and the nascent evaluation ideas they are piloting. A goal is to get others\' feedback and explore possibilities for collaboration.']
['Meenal  Pore and Nuri  Purswani and Reginald E. Bryant and Purity  Mugambi and Osamuyimen  Stewart', 'Towards a 2-Way Communication and Analytics Platform for Emergency Response and Post-Emergency Recovery Efforts in Sierra Leone', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2830634&preflayout=flat', 'At the peak of the West African Ebola outbreak in December 2014, the only prospect for containing the Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) was through behavior change to reduce transmission pathways. However, deeply ingrained beliefs, social systems, and cultural practices, combined with a lack of knowledge of the disease, made containment difficult. IBM Research - Africa, in collaboration with Sierra Leone Open Government Initiative (OGI), set up a call and SMS hotline to engage with citizens and understand issues on the ground using free text responses, which started on 19th Sept 2014 (during the first national lockdown). Localized versions of Centre for Disease Control (CDC) public health messages were broadcast on public radio along with a short question on Ebola, and listeners were encouraged to call or SMS the OGI hotline in reply to the question, or to report the current situation in their locality. Messages were categorized using a basic keyword search approach, based on categories that were determined manually, and the results of the analysis were communicated to the government via OGI. The initial deployment showed the potential of using a 2-way communication platform utilizing natural language responses to provide valuable feedback on behaviors and attitudes during a health emergency. Our presentation will describe the original platform, the outcomes of the analysis performed to date and the current work being undertaken to extend and scale the platform in Sierra Leone.']
['', '', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2145204&preflayout=flat', "Constraint can spur creativity. Approaching the 26th anniversary of the CSCW conference, we were asked to move the submission deadline two months earlier to reduce the reviewing conflict with CHI 2012. In response, we used the additional time to innovate and to increase participation while maintaining or increasing quality, by allowing authors to revise and resubmit their papers and notes. Conference attendees and proceedings readers will ultimately assess the outcome, but overall the feedback from associate chairs, reviewers and authors has been very positive.Submissions increased 57% from CSCW 2011 to a record 290 papers and 125 notes. We increased the program committee to 67 associate chairs (ACs) to handle them; 21 were women and 20 were from outside North America. They comprised representatives from computer science, social media and social networks, psychology, anthropology, software engineering, management, and design. Fifty were from universities.Our process most resembled a journal special issue, with a submission deadline, a team of four reviewers, and one revision cycle under a firm time constraint (in this case five weeks). Each submission was assigned to two committee members, designated AC-Coordinator and ACReviewer. Each AC assigned one external reviewer. In the first round, each paper or note was blind-reviewed by the AC-Reviewer and the two external reviewers. Reviewers assessed the likelihood that it could be revised within one month to be acceptable. Based on the outcomes, submissions were considered 'conditional accept' (CA, 8.7%), 'revise=resubmit' (RR, 46.5%) or 'reject' (44.8%). In general, papers that received one or more positive assessments were offered the opportunity to revise.Papers that had no positive assessment in the first round were rejected. We based this decision on an analysis of CSCW 2011 data, which revealed that submissions that did not get an advocate in the initial reviewing had 0% chance of acceptance. Sixty percent of CSCW 2011 submissions had no advocate, compared to 45% of CSCW 2012 submissions. The difference is that the CSCW 2012 submissions had a month in which they could be improved. By immediately rejecting the 45% that had no chance, we streamlined and focused the process, and reduced the number of reviews per submission despite the revision cycle.The AC Coordinator relied on the reviews in providing written guidance to authors on how to revise RRs. Authors of RR and CA submissions had five weeks to prepare a revision and an explanation of how they had addressed reviewer concerns. Resubmissions of RRs underwent a full second review from the same four-reviewer team; most CAs were checked by just one AC. Reviewing teams were strongly encouraged to resolve decisions prior to the program committee meeting and indeed, only 6% of initial submissions had to be discussed in the meeting.The program committee split into two subgroups followed by a plenary session to make the final decisions. 127 papers and 37 notes, 39.5% of initial submissions, reached acceptable quality through revision. This is almost twice the number presented in any previous CSCW, in part due to record submissions. ACs and reviewers nominated papers and notes for consideration for Best Paper awards; 4 were selected, with 17 awarded Honorable Mention.The accepted work represents diverse topics. Relatively new topics for CSCW include crowdsourcing, civic engagement, and social media; more traditional CSCW topics include distributed work, coordination, ethnography, and collaborative software development.This collaborative effort was an example of computer supported cooperative work. The entire CSCW community provided input throughout the process-many ideas and changes came from outside of the committee. Committee members had to adapt to new ways of working. Our analysis indicates that the work required of reviewers and associate chairs did not exceed that of past years, and authors benefited from two rounds of feedback from committed ACs and reviewers.Our goal was to maintain a high quality threshold while enabling more papers to reach that threshold. We believe there are many benefits to a review process with more opportunity for constructive interaction between reviewers and authors. Authors benefit by learning more about the CSCW culture, and by producing papers that are better than they could have produced on their own. Reviewers benefit by seeing their work lead to improved papers. The community benefits, because more of its members are successful at producing high quality research each year.As a community, we must consider new ways to assess conference quality-when a larger volume of high quality work is produced, older metrics no longer hold. Considering the fraction of submitted work that is of low quality to be a measure of conference quality is backwards. We need new measures of process quality and the resulting quality of accepted work. Through continued innovation, CSCW will remain the top venue for leading edge research on collaboration and technology. As with any new process, mistakes were made and much was learned. We look forward to participating as community members in ongoing innovation.The other technical tracks contribute immeasurably to the program. A record number of interactive posters will be presented. The 14 workshops drew a remarkable number of submissions. With demos, horizon, panels, videos, special sessions, and three plenary keynotes, CSCW 2012 is a great start to the second quarter-century of the CSCW conference."]
['Mark&#233;ta  Dolej&#353;ov&#225;a and Denisa  Kera', 'Fermentation GutHub: Designing for Food Sustainability in Singapore', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2898470&preflayout=flat', "The recent interest of hacker and maker communities in the optimization of everyday food practices connects the urban geek and foodie movements with traditional food cultures. The present DIY experiments with urban food fermentation show a growing citizens' interest in alternative models of food production and distribution. That was a starting point for the GutHub project conceived around practices of DIY food fermentation to support local food sustainability in Singapore. The community of enthusiasts gathered around the GutHub project has designed a number of technological tools to augment the fermentation efforts. In this paper, we present data from eight months long engagements with the GutHub community. We elaborate on the advantages and limitations of such DIY food-tech efforts and situate the findings in the context of HCI discussions on urban food sustainability."]
['Susanne  B&#248;dker and Ellen  Christiansen and Tom  Nyvang and P&#228;r-Ola  Zander', 'Personas, People and Participation: Challenges from the Trenches of Local Government', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2347649&preflayout=flat', "In the early days of digital technology development, design was done 'for', 'with' or 'by' the users based on the assumption that users were real people. Today 'users' have become a component in mass-market production and are seen as 'customers', rather than people. Still designers need to address use, and personas have been introduced for this purpose. The paper uses research on user participation and research-based personas from the eGov+ project to discuss whether personas help designers engage with users. In this project, design was carried out in the domain of municipal services through involvement of clerks, management and citizens from three different municipalities. Through four cases we discuss if applying personas in participatory design settings is productive to designers' understanding of users' use situations. Does deployment of personas bring designers closer to the actual use situation? In which ways do personas help design for, with or by the users? Do personas support participatory design?"]
['', '', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2141512&preflayout=flat', "Constraint can spur creativity. Approaching the 26th anniversary of the CSCW conference, we were asked to move the submission deadline two months earlier to reduce the reviewing conflict with CHI 2012. In response, we used the additional time to innovate and to increase participation while maintaining or increasing quality, by allowing authors to revise and resubmit their papers and notes. Conference attendees and proceedings readers will ultimately assess the outcome, but overall the feedback from associate chairs, reviewers and authors has been very positive.Submissions increased 57% from CSCW 2011 to a record 290 papers and 125 notes. We increased the program committee to 67 associate chairs (ACs) to handle them; 21 were women and 20 were from outside North America. They comprised representatives from computer science, social media and social networks, psychology, anthropology, software engineering, management, and design. Fifty were from universities.Our process most resembled a journal special issue, with a submission deadline, a team of four reviewers, and one revision cycle under a firm time constraint (in this case five weeks). Each submission was assigned to two committee members, designated AC-Coordinator and ACReviewer. Each AC assigned one external reviewer. In the first round, each paper or note was blind-reviewed by the AC-Reviewer and the two external reviewers. Reviewers assessed the likelihood that it could be revised within one month to be acceptable. Based on the outcomes, submissions were considered 'conditional accept' (CA, 8.7%), 'revise=resubmit' (RR, 46.5%) or 'reject' (44.8%). In general, papers that received one or more positive assessments were offered the opportunity to revise.Papers that had no positive assessment in the first round were rejected. We based this decision on an analysis of CSCW 2011 data, which revealed that submissions that did not get an advocate in the initial reviewing had 0% chance of acceptance. Sixty percent of CSCW 2011 submissions had no advocate, compared to 45% of CSCW 2012 submissions. The difference is that the CSCW 2012 submissions had a month in which they could be improved. By immediately rejecting the 45% that had no chance, we streamlined and focused the process, and reduced the number of reviews per submission despite the revision cycle.The AC Coordinator relied on the reviews in providing written guidance to authors on how to revise RRs. Authors of RR and CA submissions had five weeks to prepare a revision and an explanation of how they had addressed reviewer concerns. Resubmissions of RRs underwent a full second review from the same four-reviewer team; most CAs were checked by just one AC. Reviewing teams were strongly encouraged to resolve decisions prior to the program committee meeting and indeed, only 6% of initial submissions had to be discussed in the meeting.The program committee split into two subgroups followed by a plenary session to make the final decisions. 127 papers and 37 notes, 39.5% of initial submissions, reached acceptable quality through revision. This is almost twice the number presented in any previous CSCW, in part due to record submissions. ACs and reviewers nominated papers and notes for consideration for Best Paper awards; 4 were selected, with 17 awarded Honorable Mention.The accepted work represents diverse topics. Relatively new topics for CSCW include crowdsourcing, civic engagement, and social media; more traditional CSCW topics include distributed work, coordination, ethnography, and collaborative software development.This collaborative effort was an example of computer supported cooperative work. The entire CSCW community provided input throughout the process-many ideas and changes came from outside of the committee. Committee members had to adapt to new ways of working. Our analysis indicates that the work required of reviewers and associate chairs did not exceed that of past years, and authors benefited from two rounds of feedback from committed ACs and reviewers.Our goal was to maintain a high quality threshold while enabling more papers to reach that threshold. We believe there are many benefits to a review process with more opportunity for constructive interaction between reviewers and authors. Authors benefit by learning more about the CSCW culture, and by producing papers that are better than they could have produced on their own. Reviewers benefit by seeing their work lead to improved papers. The community benefits, because more of its members are successful at producing high quality research each year.As a community, we must consider new ways to assess conference quality-when a larger volume of high quality work is produced, older metrics no longer hold. Considering the fraction of submitted work that is of low quality to be a measure of conference quality is backwards. We need new measures of process quality and the resulting quality of accepted work. Through continued innovation, CSCW will remain the top venue for leading edge research on collaboration and technology. As with any new process, mistakes were made and much was learned. We look forward to participating as community members in ongoing innovation.The other technical tracks contribute immeasurably to the program. A record number of interactive posters will be presented. The 14 workshops drew a remarkable number of submissions. With demos, horizon, panels, videos, special sessions, and three plenary keynotes, CSCW 2012 is a great start to the second quarter-century of the CSCW conference."]
['Joseph L. Polman and E. Wendy Saul and Alan  Newman and Cathy  Farrar and Nancy  Singer and Eric  Turley and Laura  Pearce and Jennifer  Hope and Glenda  McCarty and Cynthia  Graville', 'A Cognitive Apprenticeship for Science Literacy Based on Journalism', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1854534&preflayout=flat', 'The Science Literacy through Science Journalism (SciJourn) project aims to reframe the discussion of science literacy for citizenship, and explore how science journalism practices can be used to inform a cognitive apprenticeship that increases the science literacy of participants. This symposium features four paper presentations that report on the progress of the SciJourn project. We report on the development of standards for science content literacy based on the expertise exhibited by science journalists, assessment measures for science literacy, and assessment measures for engagement with science and technology. Finally, we describe our efforts aimed at apprenticing high-school aged learners into a science journalism community of practice spanning multiple schools and a community-based organization.']
['Marcus  Foth and Ronald  Schroeter and Irina  Anastasiu', 'Fixing the City One Photo at a Time: Mobile Logging of Maintenance Requests', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2071555&preflayout=flat', 'We have designed a mobile application that takes advantage of the built-in features of smart phones such as camera and GPS that allow users to take geo-tagged photos while on the move. Urban residents can take pictures of broken street furniture and public property requiring repair, attach a brief description, and submit the information as a maintenance request to the local government organisation of their city. This paper discusses the design approach that led to the application, highlights a built-in mechanism to elicit user feedback, and evaluates the progress to date with user feedback and log statistics. It concludes with an outlook highlighting user requested features and our own design aspirations for moving from a reporting tool to a civic engagement tool.']
["C&#233;dric  Bach and Regina  Bernhaupt and Caio Stein D'Agostini and Marco  Winckler", 'Mobile Applications for Incident Reporting Systems in Urban Contexts: Lessons Learned from an Empirical Study', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2501960&preflayout=flat', "Many governments are now promoting the use of mobile applications allowing citizens to report incidents in their neighborhood to the administration. Such applications are sought to sense the quality of the environment thus enabling authorities to promote safety and well-being among citizens. However, little is known about how users perceive incident reporting systems and which factors affect the user experience (UX) and the perception of risk. In this paper we present some lessons learned from an empirical study involving twenty users engaged in reporting urban incidents using a mobile application. A significant result from the present study is to point out how and which UX dimensions can be effectively used as triggers to motivate users to report incidents. Based on citizens' perception of urban incidents, we discuss how to build innovative incident reporting systems that can improve the communication between citizens and administrations."]
['Joonsuk  Park and Sally  Klingel and Claire  Cardie and Mary  Newhart and Cynthia  Farina and Joan-Josep  Vallb&#233;', 'Facilitative Moderation for Online Participation in eRulemaking', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2307757&preflayout=flat', 'This paper describes the use of facilitative moderation strategies in an online rulemaking public participation system. Rulemaking is one of the U. S. government\'s most important policymaking methods. Although broad transparency and participation rights are part of its legal structure, significant barriers prevent effective engagement by many groups of interested citizens. Regulation Room, an experimental open-government partnership between academic researchers and government agencies, is a socio-technical participation system that uses multiple methods to lower potential barriers to broader participation. To encourage effective individual comments and productive group discussion in Regulation Room, we adapt strategies for facilitative human moderation originating from social science research in deliberative democracy and alternative dispute resolution [24, 1, 18, 14] for use in the demanding online participation setting of eRulemaking. We develop a moderation protocol, deploy it in "live" Department of Transportation (DOT) rulemakings, and provide an initial analysis of its use through a manual coding of all moderator interventions with respect to the protocol. We then investigate the feasibility of automating the moderation protocol: we employ annotated data from the coding project to train machine learning-based classifiers to identify places in the online discussion where human moderator intervention is required. Though the trained classifiers only marginally outperform the baseline, the improvement is statistically significant in spite of limited data and a very basic feature set, which is a promising result.']
['Daniela  Fogli and Loredana Parasiliti Provenza and Sergio  Colosio', 'Metadesigning e-Government Services: A Case Study in a Local Agency', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1843082&preflayout=flat', "This paper describes the ongoing collaboration between the Department of Information Engineering of the University of Brescia and a local government agency. The goal is to create the socio-technical conditions for transferring the ability to develop web-based government-to-citizen services from software professionals to administrative personnel. To this end, proper end-user development techniques should be defined by capturing and exploiting employees' best practices and expertise. With reference to a typical government service, the paper reports summary results from a study of administrative personnel work practices and explores employees' motivations to become end-user software developers. It then outlines the design pattern language we have been defining for the considered domain to represent, from the employees' point of view, the problems encountered while creating government services together with their possible solutions. This is the starting point for identifying a further language that addresses the problem of end-user development of e-government services from an interaction-design point of view. These pattern languages can be regarded as metadesign tools for end-user development whose final aim is to support, and even improve, existing best practices in service creation, thus increasing employees' motivation and engagement in end-user development activities."]
['Neeta  Verma and M. P. Gupta', 'Open Government Data: Beyond Policy &#38; Portal, a Study in Indian Context', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2591949&preflayout=flat', 'Open data is expected to enhance transparency, accountability and collaboration with citizens for government. Governments at all levels across all continents are therefore taking Initiatives to release their data in open domain. Open government data initiatives generally begin with a directive or a policy followed by a setting up of a data portal. All government agencies under the jurisdiction are then advised to contribute datasets in open format on the data portal. These contributing agencies face a lot of challenge right from understanding open data, capacity to compile good quality data, technology integration, potential apps, availability of funds and allocation of duty to institutional support. There is a need to enable and equip these government agencies with necessary skillsets to contribute high quality datasets. Departments also need to be equipped with necessary technology & administrative support to engage with Citizens willing to use data in open domain. Effective collaboration with community is also necessary to achieve potential use of datasets released. Further provisions should also be made in policy to achieve its institutionalization in the departments to achieve sustained release of high quality, high value datasets over a long time.']
['Munmun  De Choudhury and Andr&#233;s  Monroy-Hern&#225;ndez and Gloria  Mark', 'Narco Emotions: Affect and Desensitization in Social Media During the Mexican Drug War', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2557197&preflayout=flat', 'Social media platforms have emerged as prominent information sharing ecosystems in the context of a variety of recent crises, ranging from mass emergencies, to wars and political conflicts. We study affective responses in social media and how they might indicate desensitization to violence experienced in communities embroiled in an armed conflict. Specifically, we examine three established affect measures: negative affect, activation, and dominance as observed on Twitter in relation to a number of statistics on protracted violence in four major cities afflicted by the Mexican Drug War. During a two year period (Aug 2010 - Dec 2012), while violence was on the rise in these regions, our findings show a decline in negative emotional expression as well as a rise in emotional arousal and dominance in Twitter posts: aspects known to be psychological markers of desensitization. We discuss the implications of our work for behavioral health, facilitating rehabilitation efforts in communities enmeshed in an acute and persistent urban warfare, and the impact on civic engagement.']
['Francesco  Mureddu and Gianluca  Misuraca and David  Osimo and Stefano  Armenia', 'A New Roadmap for Next-generation Policy-making', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2463743&preflayout=flat', 'In the last thirty years the role of the government has moved consistently away from services provision to regulation. Society and economy has become more interconnected, unstable and unpredictable than ever, and citizens are keener to engage in complex policy making. Within this context, traditional tools for policy making, based upon the perfectly rational representative agent maximizing its own utility in a general equilibrium framework, have been demonstrated to be unable to predict and cope with some of today\'s most pressing challenges, such as the financial crisis and climate change. Despite the explosion of data availability, the possibility to analyse them through crowdsourcing and large scale collaboration, the advance in modelling and simulation tools for assessing non-linear impact of policy options, the full potential offered by the new instruments for policy making has yet to be achieved. Therefore policy makers have not yet at their disposal a set of instruments able to cope with the needs stemming from their decision making activities.In order to meet those needs the project CROSSOVER "Bridging Communities for Next Generation Policy-Making" is elaborating a demand/driven "International Research Roadmap on ICT tools for Governance and Policy Modelling", which links the needs and the activities of policy-making with current and future research challenges.']
['Yin-Leng  Theng and Amirrudin Bin Dahlan and Meutia Latifah Akmal and Thant Zin Myint', "An Exploratory Study on Senior Citizens' Perceptions of the Nintendo Wii: The Case of Singapore", 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1592712&preflayout=flat', "Recent developments in digitally mediated games such as the Nintendo Wii aim to encourage exercise. This paper focuses on assessing the efficacy of the Nintendo Wii, popular in the United States and Japan, in promoting regular exercise among senior citizens in Singapore (aged 65 years and above). Adapting from the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM), this exploratory study examines senior citizens' perceptions of the Nintendo Wii. Twenty-eight participants took part in this pilot study conducted at a senior citizens centre in Singapore. Data collection was carried out via a self-reported questionnaire and video observation. Findings indicate that senior citizens perceived the Nitindo Wii usable with realistic depictions of games and had positive engagement with the Wii games. However, contrary to prior belief, findings did not show that perceived usefulness has a significant influence on senior citizens' intention to use the Wii for improving social interaction, health and exercise. The paper concludes with a discussion on the design and impact of digitally mediated games for elderly users."]
['Till  Nagel and Martina  Maitan and Erik  Duval and Andrew Vande Moere and Joris  Klerkx and Kristian  Kloeckl and Carlo  Ratti', 'Touching Transport - a Case Study on Visualizing Metropolitan Public Transit on Interactive Tabletops', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2598180&preflayout=flat', 'Due to recent technical developments, urban systems generate large and complex data sets. While visualizations have been used to make these accessible, often they are tailored to one specific group of users, typically the public or expert users. We present Touching Transport, an application that allows a diverse group of users to visually explore public transit data on a multi-touch tabletop. It provides multiple perspectives of the data and consists of three visualization modes conveying tempo-spatial patterns as map, time-series, and arc view. We exhibited our system publicly, and evaluated it in a lab study with three distinct user groups: citizens with knowledge of the local environment, experts in the domain of public transport, and non-experts with neither local nor domain knowledge. Our observations and evaluation results show we achieved our goals of both attracting visitors to explore the data while enabling gathering insights for both citizens and experts. We discuss the design considerations in developing our system, and describe our lessons learned in designing engaging tabletop visualizations.']
['', '', 'ACM', 'http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2636582&preflayout=flat', 'On behalf of the organizers, we extend a warm welcome to the third ACM MobiHoc workshop on "Airborne Networks and Communications" to all participants. Airborne networking has emerged as an important research discipline over the past few years. This workshop series is created to encouragefundamental as well as applied research in this important domain. It is a result of the ideas that emerged from the meetings held over the past several years on topics that focused on cyber-physical systems (CPS) for transportation. We believe that this workshop gives us an opportunity to discuss state-of-the-art, share our research results with our peers, and develop directions for future research in this emerging field.Research and development work in airborne networking and communications has been limited to military domain until a few years ago. However, over the past few years, the industry, federal organizations, and universities have started exploring the civilian applications of aerial networks, especially networks involving unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or unmanned aircraft systems (UAS). UAVs have already proven to be efficient and economical in many applications including border and port surveillance, earth and atmospheric studies, monitoring events such as forest fires, protecting critical infrastructure, and environmental monitoring, among others. With the proposed integration of UAS into National Airspace System (NAS) by FAA, numerous other civilian applications including pipeline patrol, law enforcement, cargo delivery, border patrol, and critical infrastructure protection are being envisioned. The use of UAS leads to significant cost benefits in such applications.Before UAS can be deployed in the civilian airspace, there are significant challenges that we as a research community need to tackle. Enhancing situational awareness, sense and avoid, safety and security capabilities, and improving vehicle autonomy are the most important among these challenges as discussed in the recent workshop on Transportation CPS that was held in January 2014. In addition, as emphasized in the same workshop, there is also a need for experimental flight tests to demonstrate the safety and security of people in heavily populated areas.During this workshop, we will hear from researchers around the world who are currently engaged in research activities related to airborne networking and communications. The topics include experimental test-beds, routing protocols in tactical airborne networking, and exploring data mule concepts in UAV swarms. The papers showcase the state of the art in UAV networking and communications, demonstrate the challenges in designing real-world applications involving airborne networking and communications. We encourage the readers to take a look at the special issue of IEEE Communications Magazine on enabling next-generation airborne communications that was published in May 2014.']
['Sonia RoyoAna Yetano', '\xe2\x80\x9cCrowdsourcing\xe2\x80\x9d as a tool for e-participation: two experiences regarding CO2 emissions at municipal level', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10660-015-9183-6', 'Public administrations need to find innovative approaches to solving changing problems and to fulfilling their duties. Crowdsourcing in local governments could be defined as the use of new technologies in order to take advantage of citizen knowledge to find solutions to municipal problems. This paper analyzes two experiences of crowdsourcing at local level, and the opinions of the citizens and managers involved, to provide an initial assessment of its effectiveness and suggest avenues for improvement. Engaging citizens in e-participation initiatives is a challenge but, for public sector crowdsourcing initiatives, intrinsic motivation and intangible rewards seem to be enough to motivate participants. Results show that managers find citizens\x92 propositions viable, but publishing the final results and indicating how the ideas selected will be further developed are pending tasks. Caution is needed as failure to deliver the benefits deemed essential by citizens can make them even more reluctant to engage.']
['', 'CARS 2015\xe2\x80\x94Computer Assisted Radiology and Surgery Proceedings of the 29th International Congress and Exhibition Barcelona, Spain, June 24\xe2\x80\x9327, 2015', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11548-015-1213-2', '--Abstract not found--']
['Sophia B. Liu', 'Crisis Crowdsourcing Framework: Designing Strategic Configurations of Crowdsourcing for the Emergency Management Domain', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-014-9204-3', 'Crowdsourcing is not a new practice but it is a concept that has gained substantial attention during recent disasters. Drawing from previous work in the crisis informatics, disaster sociology, and computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW) literature, this paper first explains recent conceptualizations of crowdsourcing and how crowdsourcing is a way of leveraging disaster convergence. The CSCW concept of \x93articulation work\x94 is introduced as an interpretive frame for extracting the salient dimensions of \x93crisis crowdsourcing.\x94 Then, a series of vignettes are presented to illustrate the evolution of crisis crowdsourcing that spontaneously emerged after the 2010 Haiti earthquake and evolved to more established forms of public engagement during crises. The best practices extracted from the vignettes clarified the efforts to formalize crisis crowdsourcing through the development of innovative interfaces designed to support the articulation work needed to facilitate spontaneous volunteer efforts. Extracting these best practices led to the development of a conceptual framework that unpacks the key dimensions of crisis crowdsourcing. The Crisis Crowdsourcing Framework is a systematic, problem-driven approach to determining the why, who, what, when, where, and how aspects of a crowdsourcing system. The framework also draws attention to the social, technological, organizational, and policy (STOP) interfaces that need to be designed to manage the articulation work involved with reducing the complexity of coordinating across these key dimensions. An example of how to apply the framework to design a crowdsourcing system is offered with a discussion on the implications for applying this framework as well as the limitations of this framework. Innovation is occurring at the social, technological, organizational, and policy interfaces enabling crowdsourcing to be operationalized and integrated into official products and services.']
['Johanna Nuojua', 'WebMapMedia: a map-based Web application for facilitating participation in spatial planning', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00530-009-0175-z', 'In this paper, a new map-based Web application developed for facilitating citizen participation in spatial planning is studied. Two planning experiments testing the map-based application called WebMapMedia are featured. The literature review of the paper describes attempts to utilize geographic information systems (GIS) in participation, pointing out severe weaknesses of these systems in acquiring and processing qualitative local knowledge. The results of the experiments show that the Web-based technology supports regular but short-term \x93lunch break participation\x94 that occurs in the week during the office hours. The other results reveal a symbiotic relationship between conventional and Web-based means of participation and the potential of the Web-based technology to broaden participation. It is also found that if the technology can be adapted to the stages of the planning process, it may facilitate knowledge creation in the process. The Google Maps mashup based on Web 2.0 approach exhibits certain advantages over GIS-based solutions. Based on the results, it is argued that a prerequisite for the full utilization of the Web-based technology in participation is the evolution of the planning process and the attitudes of the planners.']
['Yuxiang ZhaoQinghua Zhu', 'Evaluation on crowdsourcing research: Current status and future direction', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10796-012-9350-4', 'Crowdsourcing is one of the emerging Web 2.0 based phenomenon and has attracted great attention from both practitioners and scholars over the years. It can facilitate the connectivity and collaboration of people, organizations, and societies. We believe that Information Systems scholars are in a unique position to make significant contributions to this emerging research area and consider it as a new research frontier. However, so far, few studies have elaborated what have been achieved and what should be done. This paper seeks to present a critical examination of the substrate of crowdsourcing research by surveying the landscape of existing studies, including theoretical foundations, research methods, and research foci, and identifies several important research directions for IS scholars from three perspectives\x97the participant, organization, and system\x97and which warrant further study. This research contributes to the IS literature and provides insights for researchers, designers, policy-makers, and managers to better understand various issues in crowdsourcing systems and projects.']
['Dharma DaileyKate Starbird', 'Journalists as Crowdsourcerers: Responding to Crisis by Reporting with a Crowd', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-014-9208-z', 'Widespread adoption of new information communication technologies (ICTs) is disrupting traditional models of news production and distribution. In this rapidly changing media landscape, the role of the journalist is evolving. Our research examines how professional journalists within a rural community impacted by Hurricane Irene successfully negotiated a new role for themselves, transforming their journalistic practice to serve in a new capacity as leaders of an online volunteer community. We describe an emergent organization of media professionals, citizen journalists, online volunteers, and collaborating journalistic institutions that provided real-time event coverage. In this rural context, where communications infrastructure is relatively uneven, this ad hoc effort bridged gaps in ICT infrastructure to unite its audience. In this paper, we introduce a new perspective for characterizing these information-sharing activities: the \x93human powered mesh network\x94 extends the concept of a mesh network to include human actors in the movement of information. Our analysis shows how journalists played a key role in this network, and facilitated the movement of information to those who needed it. These findings also note a contrast between how HCI researchers are designing crowdsourcing platforms for news production and how crowdsourcing efforts are forming during disaster events, suggesting an alternative approach to designing for emergent collaborations in this context.']
['Robert Munro', 'Crowdsourcing and the crisis-affected community', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10791-012-9203-2', 'This article reports on Mission 4636, a real-time humanitarian crowdsourcing initiative that processed 80,000 text messages (SMS) sent from within Haiti following the 2010 earthquake. It was the first time that crowdsourcing (microtasking) had been used for international relief efforts, and is the largest deployment of its kind to date. This article presents the first full report and analysis of the initiative looking at the accuracy and timeliness in creating structured data from the messages and the collaborative nature of the process. Contrary to all previous papers, studies and media reports about Mission 4636, which have typically chosen to exclude empirical analyses and the involvement of the Haitian population, it is found that the greatest volume, speed and accuracy in information processing was by Haitian nationals, the Haitian diaspora, and those working closest with them, and that no new technologies played a significant role. It is concluded that international humanitarian organizations have been wrongly credited for large-scale information processing initiatives (here and elsewhere) and that for the most part they were largely just witnesses to crisis-affected communities bootstrapping their own recovery through communications technologies. The particular focus is on the role of the diaspora, an important population that are increasingly able to contribute to response efforts thanks to their increased communication potential. It is recommended that future humanitarian deployments of crowdsourcing focus on information processing within the populations they serve, engaging those with crucial local knowledge wherever they happen to be in the world.']
['Miko\xc5\x82aj Morzy', 'ICT Services for open and citizen science', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11280-014-0303-3', 'Ideas of open access, open data and open science are transforming the world of scientific inquiry as we speak. Every day thousands of ordinary citizens are engaging in data collection and data processing, giving rise to the new field of citizen science. Never before has the technology enabled scientists to reach out to such vast numbers of collaborators and show their work to the public. From pattern recognition in Hubble space telescope images of distant galaxies to field observations of migration patterns of birds in the rural areas of United States, the possibilities are countless. Certainly this new trend poses important problems and challenges, but it is also obvious that wide acceptance of citizen science can lead not only to great scientific results, but to the popularization of scientific method among the public. In the paper we examine the current state of citizen science, we outline some of the most interesting and difficult challenges in leading scientific projects on such scale, and we present typologies of citizen science projects. We also provide a survey of ICT tools available for citizen science projects.']
['John M. CarrollBlaine HoffmanKyungsik HanMary Beth Rosson', 'Reviving community networks: hyperlocality and suprathresholding in Web 2.0 designs', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00779-014-0831-y', '\n            Social scientists have identified a crisis of community in modern society, for example, Putnam\x92s (Bowling alone: the collapse and revival of American community. Simon and Schuster, New York, 2000) study of a 40-year decline of community in American society. We argue that the design palette of Web 2.0 offers critical affordances for community information and interaction that enable hyperlocality and suprathresholding. We describe a community-based participatory design research project through which we investigated the design characteristics of hyperlocality and suprathresholding. We speculate on the possibility of a new design model for community networks.\n            ']
['Alice Katharina PieperMichael Pieper', 'Political participation via social media: a case study of deliberative quality in the public online budgeting process of Frankfurt/Main, Germany 2013', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10209-014-0353-4', 'If social media are to reinforce sustainability of political decisions, their design has conceptually to take into account the implications of deliberative democracy, which stresses the active cooperation of virtually all citizens of a democracy for the purposes of participatory involvement. Essential to deliberative e-democracy is therefore a technologically supported comprehensive discourse about political subjects which is also called deliberation. Theoretical implications of deliberation are discussed from the angle of political science and social psychology. Finally, the practical implications of deliberation rooted in social media are exemplified by an online citizen involvement for the public budgeting purposes of the city of Frankfurt/Main (Germany).']
['Reinhard A. HandlerRaul Ferrer Conill', 'Open Data, Crowdsourcing and Game Mechanics. A case study on civic participation in the digital age', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-016-9250-0', 'The aim of this paper is to shed light on the dynamics of civic participation, media agency, and data practices. To do so we analyse an investigative journalism story run by The Guardian that combined open data, crowdsourcing and game mechanics with the purpose of engaging readers. The case study highlights how data can be made accessible to people who usually do not have access; how game mechanics can be deployed in order to foster civic participation by offering users a sense of autonomy, competence and relatedness; and how crowdsourcing can organise a large group of people into achieving a common goal. The combination of these three elements resulted in a case for civic participation in the digital era.']
['Ari-Veikko AnttiroikoPekka ValkamaStephen J. Bailey', 'Smart cities in the new service economy: building platforms for smart services', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-013-0464-0', 'Recent changes in service environments have changed the preconditions of their production and consumption. These changes include unbundling services from production processes, growth of the information-rich economy and society, the search for creativity in service production and consumption and continuing growth of digital technologies. These contextual changes affect city governments because they provide a range of infrastructure and welfare services to citizens. Concepts such as \x91smart city\x92, \x91intelligent city\x92 and \x91knowledge city\x92 build new horizons for cities in undertaking their challenging service functions in an increasingly cost-conscious, competitive and environmentally oriented setting. What is essential in practically all of them is that they paint a picture of cities with smooth information processes, facilitation of creativity and innovativeness, and smart and sustainable solutions promoted through service platforms. This article discusses this topic, starting from the nature of services and the new service economy as the context of smart local public services. On this basis, we build an overall framework for understanding the basic forms and dimensions of smart public services. The focus is on conceptual systematisation of the key dimensions of smart services and the conceptual modelling of smart service platforms through which digital technology is increasingly embedded in social creativity. We provide examples of real-life smart service applications within the European context.']
['Douglas Schuler', 'Community networks and the evolution of civic intelligence', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-009-0260-z', 'Although the intrinsic physicality of human beings has not changed in millennia, the species has managed to profoundly reconstitute the physical and social world it inhabits. Although the word \x93profound\x94 is insufficient to describe the vast changes our world has undergone, it is sufficiently neutral to encompass both the opportunities\x97and the challenges\x97that our age provides. It is a premise of my work that technology, particularly information and communication technology (ICT), offers spectacular opportunities for humankind to address its collective problems. The problems themselves are equally spectacular that is war and militarism, poverty, environmental depletion and destruction, disease, etc., and lack of successful alleviation may prove catastrophic. Humankind\x92s problems will not be solved by elite fiat, by chance, or as a side-effect of the \x93free market.\x94 To address these challenges effectively and appropriately, \x93civic intelligence\x94 will be required. This paper is designed to explore the relation between community networks and the nascent concept of civic intelligence. Civic intelligence describes the capacity of society to consciously adapt to its environment and shape a future environment that is healthy, equitable, and sustainable. Although individuals contribute to civic intelligence, the concept describes a phenomenon that is collective and distributed. This paper argues that community networks were an important manifestation of civic intelligence in the early days of the Internet revolution. It further argues that a theory of civic intelligence can be used to account for the declining influence of traditional community networks and to provide useful prescriptions for renewed vitality and influence of community networks in the future.']
['', 'Space and Situated Cognition: Proceedings of the Sixth International Conference on Spatial Cognition (ICSC 2015)', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10339-015-0732-7', '--Abstract not found--']
['Min ChenShiwen MaoYunhao Liu', 'Big Data: A Survey', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11036-013-0489-0', 'In this paper, we review the background and state-of-the-art of big data. We first introduce the general background of big data and review related technologies, such as could computing, Internet of Things, data centers, and Hadoop. We then focus on the four phases of the value chain of big data, i.e., data generation, data acquisition, data storage, and data analysis. For each phase, we introduce the general background, discuss the technical challenges, and review the latest advances. We finally examine the several representative applications of big data, including enterprise management, Internet of Things, online social networks, medial applications, collective intelligence, and smart grid. These discussions aim to provide a comprehensive overview and big-picture to readers of this exciting area. This survey is concluded with a discussion of open problems and future directions.']
['Manuel Pedro Rodr\xc3\xadguez Bol\xc3\xadvar', 'Policy makers\xe2\x80\x99 perceptions on the transformational effect of Web 2.0 technologies on public services delivery', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10660-015-9196-1', 'The growing participation in social networking sites is altering the nature of social relations and changing the nature of political and public dialogue. This paper contributes to the current debate on Web 2.0 technologies and their implications for local governance, identifying the perceptions of policy makers on the use of Web 2.0 in providing public services and on the changing roles that could arise from the resulting interaction between local governments and their stakeholders. The results obtained suggest that policy makers are willing to implement Web 2.0 technologies in providing public services, but preferably under the Bureaucratic model framework, thus retaining a leading role in this implementation. The learning curve of local governments in the use of Web 2.0 technologies is a factor that could influence policy makers\x92 perceptions. In this respect, many research gaps are identified and further study of the question is recommended.']
['Thomas LudwigChristian ReuterVolkmar Pipek', 'From Publics to Communities: Researching the Path of Shared Issues Through ICT', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-016-9252-y', 'In recent years, citizens\x92 movements such as the Arab Spring or Euromaidan protests have clearly shown that, whenever affected \x96 whether negatively or positively \x96 by the state and government decisions, citizens act to deal with the shared issues. Groups of people who organize themselves to address (mainly political) issues were defined as a \x91public\x92 by the philosopher John Dewey. He believed it is necessary to improve communication to create a \x91Great Community\x92 as a cohesive group of a public. Although information and communication technologies (ICT) lead to ambivalent effects on pursuing this goal and often distract the mass of people from discussing these issues, we argue that nowadays ICT can improve communication and has the potential to foster the detection of issues and therefore promote the (trans-)formation of a public into an issue-based community. As our foundation we took a literature study covering the formation of publics and their potential to evolve into communities, as well as their interplay with technology. This formed the basis for the development of our operational model that \x91follows the issues\x92 for capturing the (trans-)formation of a public. Based on our model, we outline different perspectives on detecting shared issues as early indicators for publics based on ICT and derive implications for researching this process from a practical perspective.']
['Trevor Bench-CaponMicha\xc5\x82 AraszkiewiczKevin AshleyKatie AtkinsonFloris BexFilipe BorgesDaniele BourcierPaul BourgineJack G. ConradEnrico FrancesconiThomas F. GordonGuido GovernatoriJochen L. LeidnerDavid D. LewisRonald P. LouiL. Thorne McCarty', 'A history of AI and Law in 50 papers: 25\xc2\xa0years of the international conference on AI and Law', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10506-012-9131-x', 'We provide a retrospective of 25\xa0years of the International Conference on AI and Law, which was first held in 1987. Fifty papers have been selected from the thirteen conferences and each of them is described in a short subsection individually written by one of the 24 authors. These subsections attempt to place the paper discussed in the context of the development of AI and Law, while often offering some personal reactions and reflections. As a whole, the subsections build into a history of the last quarter century of the field, and provide some insights into where it has come from, where it is now, and where it might go.']
['Alan ChamberlainMark PaxtonKevin GloverMartin FlinthamDominic PriceChris GreenhalghSteve BenfordPeter TolmieEiman KanjoAmanda GowerAndy GowerDawn WoodgateDana\xc3\xab Stanton Fraser', 'Understanding mass participatory pervasive computing systems for environmental campaigns', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00779-013-0756-x', '\nParticipate was a 3-year collaboration between industry and academia to explore how mobile, Web and broadcast technologies could combine to deliver environmental campaigns. In a series of pilot projects, schools used mobile sensors to enhance science learning; visitors to an ecological attraction employed mobile phones to access and generate locative media; and the public played a mobile phone game that challenged their environmental behaviours. Key elements of these were carried forward into an integrated trial in which participants were assigned a series of environmental missions as part of an overarching narrative that was delivered across mobile, broadcast and Web platforms. These experiences use a three-layered structure for campaigns that draw on experts, local groups and the general public, who engage through a combination of playful characterisation and social networking.']
['Nguyen Hoang ThuanPedro AntunesDavid Johnstone', 'Factors influencing the decision to crowdsource: A systematic literature review', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10796-015-9578-x', 'Crowdsourcing is currently attracting much attention from organisations for its competitive advantages over traditional work structures regarding how to utilise skills and labour and especially to harvest expertise and innovation. Prior research suggests that the decision to crowdsource cannot simply be based on perceived advantages; rather multiple factors should be considered. However, a structured account and integration of the most important decision factors is still lacking. This research fills the gap by providing a systematic literature review of the decision to crowdsource. Our results identify nine factors and sixteen sub-factors influencing this decision. These factors are structured into a decision framework concerning task, people, management, and environmental factors. Based on this framework, we give several recommendations for managers making the crowdsourcing decision.']
['David Wright', 'A framework for the ethical impact assessment of information technology', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-010-9242-6', 'This paper proposes a framework for an ethical impact assessment which can be performed in regard to any policy, service, project or programme involving information technology. The framework is structured on the four principles posited by Beauchamp and Childress together with a separate section on privacy and data protection. The framework identifies key social values and ethical issues, provides some brief explanatory contextual information which is then followed by a set of questions aimed at the technology developer or policy-maker to facilitate consideration of ethical issues, in consultation with stakeholders, which may arise in their undertaking. In addition, the framework includes a set of ethical tools and procedural practices which can be employed as part of the ethical impact assessment. Although the framework has been developed within a European context, it could be applied equally well beyond European borders.']
['', 'Overview of BISE Articles Published in 2009, 2010, and 2011', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12599-011-0191-3', '--Abstract not found--']
['Saqib SaeedMarkus RohdeVolker Wulf', 'Analyzing Political Activists\xe2\x80\x99 Organization Practices: Findings from a Long Term Case Study of the European Social Forum', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-011-9144-0', 'Designing ICT support for transnational networks of social activists is a challenge due to diverse organizational structures, cultural identities, political ideologies, and financial conditions. In this paper we present empirical findings on ICT usage in the organizing process of the European Social Forum (ESF) covering a period of almost 3\xa0years. The European Social Forum is a platform for political activists involved in the anti-globalization movement. During our data collection period, the 5th and 6th European Social Fora were held in Malmo (2008) and Istanbul (2010). The paper describes complex social practices in organizing ESF events. We use the term fragmented meta-coordination to denote this type of practice. Mundane IT applications, such as a mailing list and a content management system, play a central role in enabling different aspects of fragmented meta-coordination. The findings also indicate how lacking resources, organizational distribution, and technical limitations hamper the preparation process and reduce the transparency of political decision making. Our analysis highlights central organizational and technological challenges related to ICT appropriation in transnational networks of social activists.']
['Xiaoyu YangDavid WallomSimon WaddingtonJianwu WangArif ShaonBrian MatthewsMichael WilsonYike GuoLi GuoJon D. BlowerAthanasios V. VasilakosKecheng LiuPhilip Kershaw', 'Cloud computing in e-Science: research challenges and\xc2\xa0opportunities', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11227-014-1251-5', 'Service-oriented architecture (SOA), workflow, the Semantic Web, and Grid computing are key enabling information technologies in the development of increasingly sophisticated e-Science infrastructures and application platforms. While the emergence of Cloud computing as a new computing paradigm has provided new directions and opportunities for e-Science infrastructure development, it also presents some challenges. Scientific research is increasingly finding that it is difficult to handle \x93big data\x94 using traditional data processing techniques. Such challenges demonstrate the need for a comprehensive analysis on using the above-mentioned informatics techniques to develop appropriate e-Science infrastructure and platforms in the context of Cloud computing. This survey paper describes recent research advances in applying informatics techniques to facilitate scientific research particularly from the Cloud computing perspective. Our particular contributions include identifying associated research challenges and opportunities, presenting lessons learned, and describing our future vision for applying Cloud computing to e-Science. We believe our research findings can help indicate the future trend of e-Science, and can inform funding and research directions in how to more appropriately employ computing technologies in scientific research. We point out the open research issues hoping to spark new development and innovation in the e-Science field.']
['Antonio J. JaraMar\xc3\xada Concepci\xc3\xb3n ParraAntonio F. Skarmeta', 'Participative marketing: extending social media marketing through the identification and interaction capabilities from the Internet of things', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00779-013-0714-7', 'Internet of things extends the capabilities to identify products with new technologies such as near field communication, radio-frequency identification, quick response code and with existing identification technologies such as barcode. Identification allows to retrieve extended information and knowledge of the products. Thereby, customers are able to retrieve and share knowledge among the different products. This work presents the participative marketing as the evolution from the social media marketing toward the active participation from the prosumers and the empowerment of the marketing with the collective intelligence. Thereby, participative marketing enables new interaction and participation models based on the ubiquitous identification. This has been evaluated in a social platform, which integrates the knowledge and experiences from the customers, and in a mobile platform, which interacts with the products through the mentioned identification technologies.\n            ']
['Ugur KaleDebbie Goh', 'Teaching style, ICT experience and teachers\xe2\x80\x99 attitudes toward teaching with Web 2.0', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10639-012-9210-3', 'Emphasis on 21st Century Skills development has increased expectations on teachers to take advantages of emerging technologies to support student learning. Yet it is not clear whether teachers are well equipped with the necessary skills, support, and positive attitudes toward integrating them in their practices. Even though student-centered teachers are considered receptive to collaborative technologies and likely to use technology meaningfully in teaching, to what extent teaching style influences their Web 2.0 adaption requires further investigation. This study attempts to identify K12 teachers\x92 attitudes toward the use of Web 2.0 technologies in their teaching. 161 teachers from eight middle and high schools in both rural and urban locations of West Virginia participated in this cross sectional survey study. Overall, the findings indicate that while teachers are fairly proficient in their computer and internet skills and have fairly high computer self-efficacy, their workload and a structured and standardized curriculum were inhibitors of Web 2.0 adoption. Age, self-efficacy, workload, and views about Web 2.0 in teaching were observed to be significant factors predicting teachers\x92 likelihood to find Web 2.0 appealing for teaching. Teaching style was not a significant predictor. The findings suggest infrastructural improvements, workload adjustments, and increased professional development opportunities allowing teachers to observe, discuss, and practice Web 2.0 technologies in their particular disciplines.']
['Silvana Rossy de BritoAleksandra do Socorro da SilvaDalton Lopes MartinsNandamudi Lankalapalli VijaykumarCl\xc3\xa1udio Alex Jorge da RochaJo\xc3\xa3o Cris\xc3\xb3stomo Weyl Albuquerque CostaCarlos Renato Lisboa Franc\xc3\xaas', 'Employing online social networks to monitor and evaluate training of digital inclusion agents', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13278-012-0093-5', 'This work presents challenges in evaluating and monitoring digital inclusion training programs, considering the aspects inherent in large-scale training, and report the main challenges in an approach based on network learning. For this, our goals are as follows: develop an architecture to provide all interface features with communication tools, data collection, automatic notification (alerts) of interest to those involved in training and proposal, and survey analyses; employ algorithms to measure the centrality, prestige, and density of interactions in a real case and consolidated training based on learning network; employ algorithms to correlate and measure, in probabilistic terms, the effects of participation in the interaction tools and the use of the resources and activities proposed; and improve a large-scale training program from the implementation of monitoring and tracking services offered in the architecture.']
['Peter TolmieAlan ChamberlainSteve Benford', 'Designing for reportability: sustainable gamification, public engagement, and promoting environmental debate', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00779-013-0755-y', 'There is a growing emphasis in many countries on matters such as participation in e-government, e-democracy, the provision of forums for online debate, and so on. A critical issue in all of these cases is one of encouraging engagement across a broad spectrum of potentially interested parties and stakeholders. In this paper, we use an ethnographic study of an online event, designed to encourage debate, to explore some critical issues in how the mechanisms productive of debate have shifted in company with the Web 2.0 phenomenon. By contrasting this with a prior study of how players managed their gameplay in a multiplayer pervasive game, we focus upon how different ways of constructing games and events can have serious implications for their ordinary everyday reportability in routine face-to-face interactions. We conclude that designing for reportability should be an active consideration when designing the resources for online debate and consider some ways in which that might be accomplished.\n']
['Erik WitternChristian Zirpins', 'Service feature modeling: modeling and participatory ranking of service design alternatives', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10270-014-0414-4', 'The design of software-intensive service systems involves and affects numerous stakeholders including software engineers, legal and business experts as well as a potentially large number of consumers. In consequence, the challenge arises to adequately represent the interests of these groups with respect to service design decisions. Specifically, shared service design artifacts and participatory methods for influencing their development in consensus are required, which are not yet state of the art in software service engineering. To this end, we present service feature modeling. Using a modeling notation based on feature-oriented analysis, our approach can represent and interrelate diverse service design concerns and capture their potential combinations as service design alternatives. We further present a method that allows stakeholders to rank service design alternatives based on their preferences. The ranking can support service engineers in selecting viable alternatives for implementation. To exploit this potential, we have implemented a toolkit to enable both modeling and participative ranking of service design alternatives. It has been used to apply service feature modeling in the context of public service design and evaluate the approach in this context.']
['Edgar A. MaldonadoCarleen F. MaitlandAndrea H. Tapia', 'Collaborative systems development in disaster relief: The impact of multi-level governance', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10796-009-9166-z', 'Disaster management information systems for international humanitarian relief are developed in contexts involving local, national and inter-governmental organizations together with local and international non-governmental organizations (NGOs). While the multi-organizational nature of disaster response is known to create challenges for information systems development, to date, less attention has been paid to their multi-level nature. This research sheds light on the implications of multi-level governance for disaster information systems development by integrating political science and information systems theories of multi-level governance. The integrated theoretical framework is then used to analyze a case study of a system development effort undertaken by a multi-organizational coordination body consisting of the headquarters of six large, international humanitarian relief agencies, together with their country offices in a Central American country. This research finds that multi-level governance can both negatively and positively influence information systems development. In a multi-level governance arrangement, authority for a systems development project may be diffuse and may change. The transfer of resources from higher to lower levels is key factor, as these resources help local organizations overcome resource constraints to collaboration. The initial outcome of coercion by higher levels of authority may be resistance, however over time the outcome can change to compliance.']
['Martin R. KalfatovicEffie KapsalisKatherine P. SpiessAnne Van CampMichael Edson', 'Smithsonian Team Flickr: a library, archives, and museums collaboration in web 2.0 space', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10502-009-9089-y', 'The Flickr Commons was created as a forum for institutions to share their rich photographic collections with the emerging Web 2.0 audience of Flickr; the Smithsonian Institution was the fourth member of the Commons. The Smithsonian effort was a direct collaborative effort of the libraries, archives, museums, and information technology staff that generated new pathways for collaboration between these units. As the world\x92s largest museum complex, these Smithsonian units serve as a microcosm for collaboration in the information age. The Flickr Commons project provided insights into how the knowledge, skills, and abilities of libraries, archives, and museums (LAM) can converge in the Web 2.0 environment to provide collection access to new, and in some cases unknown, audiences. Simultaneously, by putting \x93LAM\x94 content into an environment that allows for direct interaction by these audiences, the knowledge of the content for holding institutions is enriched. By exposing Smithsonian content within the Flickr environment, the Institution is learning what content is desired by the Web 2.0 world, how to bring crowd-sourcing into professionally curated collections, and how to bring diverse institutional skills together in a collaborative project.']
['Gilson Yukio SatoHilton Jos\xc3\xa9 Silva de AzevedoJean-Paul A. Barth\xc3\xa8s', 'Agent and multi-agent applications to support distributed communities of practice: a short review', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10458-011-9170-9', 'This paper concerns the relationship between agents or multi-agent systems and distributed communities of practice. It presents a review of a number of agent and multi-agent applications with features that could contribute to supporting distributed communities of practice. The association is promising because of features like autonomy, pro-activity, flexibility or ability to integrate systems that characterize agents and multi-agent systems. Furthermore, such an association is a step towards building mixed communities of humans and artificial agents. To understand how agents and multi-agent systems could answer some of the needs of distributed communities of practice, we organize the analyzed applications into five different categories defined by considering the main activities of a community, namely: Individual Participation, Synchronous Interactions, Asynchronous Interactions, Publishing and Community Cultivation. Such a classification helps us identify the relevant features of the current technology and determine some that should be further developed, e.g. to support community coordination or gather information related to virtual communities. For each application we selected, we present its main approach and point out its potential interest.']
['Loukas KipenisDimitris Askounis', 'Assessing e-Participation via user\xe2\x80\x99s satisfaction measurement: the case of OurSpace platform', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10479-015-1911-8', 'The field of e-Participation is expanding as many similar platforms have been created to elicit citizens\x92 opinions on political and social issues in modern democracies especially under political and economic crises. The development of the field has been supported by emerging web technologies such as social networking, data mining, sentiment analysis and collaborative systems. This paper presents a methodological framework to assess the main dimensions of an e-Participation system from the users\x92 perspective by measuring users\x92 satisfaction and highlighting its advantages and identifying its shortcomings in order to propose areas for improvement. The method refers to an e-Participation platform developed in the scope of the e-Participation project OurSpace. The evaluation framework of the project was realized through a questionnaire, suitably designed to be in line with the Whyte and Macintosh theory of three perspectives: social, technical and political. The assessment of the OurSpace platform was performed through the multi-criteria satisfaction analysis method. The method provided all satisfaction diagrams and indices so as to determine the users\x92 opinion about OurSpace e-Participation system and point out the needed actions towards improvement.']
['Senjuti Basu RoyIoanna LykourentzouSaravanan ThirumuruganathanSihem Amer-YahiaGautam Das', 'Task assignment optimization in knowledge-intensive crowdsourcing', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00778-015-0385-2', 'We present SmartCrowd, a framework for optimizing task assignment in knowledge-intensive crowdsourcing (KI-C). SmartCrowd distinguishes itself by formulating, for the first time, the problem of worker-to-task assignment in KI-C as an optimization problem, by proposing efficient adaptive algorithms to solve it and by accounting for human factors, such as worker expertise, wage requirements, and availability inside the optimization process. We present rigorous theoretical analyses of the task assignment optimization problem and propose optimal and approximation algorithms with guarantees, which rely on index pre-computation and adaptive maintenance. We perform extensive performance and quality experiments using real and synthetic data to demonstrate that the SmartCrowd approach is necessary to achieve efficient task assignments of high-quality under guaranteed cost budget.']
['Marina JirotkaCharlotte P. LeeGary M. Olson', 'Supporting Scientific Collaboration: Methods, Tools and Concepts', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-012-9184-0', 'This paper discusses the interrelationship between e-Science and CSCW in terms of key substantive, methodological and conceptual innovations made in both fields. In so doing, we hope to draw out the existing relationship between CSCW and e-Science research, and to map out some key future challenges where the two areas of research may become more closely aligned. In considering what may be required to draw the two more closely together, the paper focuses primarily on investigations that have been undertaken in two dedicated initiatives into e-Science, along with the key issues emerging from these studies.']
['Yuping ChengYan ChenRan WeiHanbin Luo', 'Development of a Construction Quality Supervision Collaboration System Based on a SaaS Private Cloud', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10846-014-0108-8', 'In this paper, the background of the SaaS private cloud-based Construction Quality Supervision Collaboration System (CQSCS) is introduced; the current status and shortcomings of construction quality supervision are described, and methods are proposed to incorporate the novel software architecture and application models of the SaaS private cloud to strengthen construction quality supervision and management. The design and construction of the overall framework of the CQSCS were completed in the study; system functions and structure were designed and developed, such as the quality supervision unit, quality inspection unit and quality acceptance unit, whose targets are to serve construction quality supervision agencies, quality inspection agencies and units involved in on-site construction. Additionally, the new system is compared against the old system. Finally, based on the CQSCS used in Wuhan, the function system and applications of the construction quality supervision and management system are discussed, and the prospect of the wide-spread application of the designed system is speculated.']
['Hamideh AfsarmaneshSimon Samwel MsanjilaLuis M. Camarinha-Matos', 'Technological research plan for active ageing', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10796-011-9295-z', 'The ePAL initiative aimed at developing a roadmap for extension of professional active life of the retiring and retired knowledge workers in developed countries and specifically in Europe. Three main perspectives are identified in this roadmap, and defined to comprehensively address relevant dimensions of the ePAL environment. These three perspectives consist of: (1) the technological perspective that addresses the needed technology and the support services, (2) the societal perspective that addresses both the human factors and the societal aspects, and (3) the organizational perspective that addresses both the economic / managerial and governmental aspects of these environments. This document however aims to zoom in on the technological perspective of the roadmap. Following a brief description of the three main perspectives of the ePAL environment, it introduces the four main ICT research and development areas that are identified for strengthening and realization of active ageing. The technological perspective of the ePAL\x92s vision constitutes a substantial part of the roadmap recommendations. This article further addresses the state of the art in each of these four areas and exemplifies their application needs in the ePAL environment.']
['Daniel Dom\xc3\xadnguez FigaredoJos\xc3\xa9 Francisco \xc3\x81lvarez \xc3\x81lvarez', 'Social Networks and University Spaces. Knowledge and Open Innovation in the Ibero-American Knowledge Space', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.7238/rusc.v9i1.1100', 'Information technology-based social spaces can open up new ways to facilitate the university community\x92s participation in decision-making processes. Although the appropriation of technology is very high and widespread among university groups, there is a very weak presence of suitable structures and processes that enable institutions to channel online participation, to analyse their impact on improving organisational goals and, ultimately, to make use of such open processes as a means of generating innovations in their main lines of action. Based on the experience of coordinating the UniversiaG10 project, the Social Web platform of the 2nd Universia International Meeting of Rectors, this article proposes some innovations and elements that justify the need to move towards true e-governance of universities.']
['Gert-Jan de VreedePedro AntunesJulita VassilevaMarco Aur\xc3\xa9lio GerosaKewen Wu', 'Collaboration technology in teams and organizations: Introduction to the special issue', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10796-016-9632-3', '--Abstract not found--']
['Klas G\xc3\xa4reUlf Melin', 'Sociomaterial actors in the assimilation gap: a case study of web service, management and IT-assimilation', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10257-012-0205-9', 'This paper investigates the conditions for the assimilation of information systems (IS) and information technology (IT) in organizations and the influence of various actors in the organization and eBusiness context. To do so it draws on the literature on assimilation gap, sociomateriality and infrastructure together with a study of implementation and use of information and communication technology in and among organizations in a Swedish region. There were substantial investments in web infrastructure made on a regional level and the focus of this study is how the investments were transformed and assimilated in practices, relations and communication. Based on the empirical data from the case study, the paper extends the assimilation process into interplay among actors in organizations contexts. It describes organizations\x92 strategies for coping with their needs for information and the actors in these processes. Two categories of actors are identified, sensemaking and sensegiving actors, as most important in assimilation of IS/IT in organizations. A sociomaterial perspective gives guidance and a better understanding of the assimilation process in terms of knowledge and interpretative frames, and how assimilation involves identity construction and negotiations among sensemaking and sensegiving actors. The contribution of this paper is a better understanding of the context of assimilation and adaptation of IT in organizations\x92 business processes, and steps to be taken to improve readiness.']
['Sonia YacoAnn JimersonLaura Caldwell AndersonChanda Temple', 'A web-based community-building archives project: a case study of Kids in Birmingham 1963', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10502-015-9246-4', 'Recent archival literature on social justice emphasizes activism\x97the importance of documenting social activism and activists, and activists\x92 use of archives for promoting social justice. Left out of these discussions is the role archives can play in helping to capture the experiences of bystanders\x97passive participants\x97during times of tumultuous social change. Recording those stories provides a more nuanced view of times of great change in society and helps people place their own experiences in historic context. Civil rights activists and their opponents\x92 racist violence in 20th century at Birmingham, Alabama, in the USA, have been well documented. The experiences of passive participants have not been entered into the historic record. This case study examines a web-based hybrid heritage project that provides a forum for people raised in Birmingham to share their experiences in the watershed year, 1963. Kids in Birmingham 1963 (referred to as Kids) contain curated first-person accounts and educational tools. The project acts as a clearinghouse, proactively marketing its content and making its contributors available for direct interviews with the media, educators, and students. The Kids project has created a new community that could not have existed 50\xa0years ago because of segregation. Contributors and users find benefits in opportunities to inspire younger generations to join the cause for social justice. The authors propose using the techniques employed in this project and its sister project, Desegregation of Virginia Education, to develop a model that can enable communities to create a rich historical record and make it widely available through mass media, social media, and educational outlets.']
['Vishanth WeerakkodyZahir IraniHabin LeeIbrahim OsmanNitham Hindi', 'E-government implementation: A bird\xe2\x80\x99s eye view of issues relating to costs, opportunities, benefits and risks', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10796-013-9472-3', 'After more than a decade of comprehensive research work in the area of electronic government (e-government), no attempt has yet been made to undertake a systematic literature review on the costs, opportunities, benefits and risks that influence the implementation of e-government. This is particularly significant given the various related challenges that governments have faced over the years when implementing e-government initiatives. Hence, the aim of this paper is to undertake a comprehensive analysis of relevant literature addressing these issues using a systematic review of 132 studies identified from the Scopus online database and Google Scholar together with a manual review of relevant papers from journals dedicated to electronic government research such as Electronic Government, an International Journal (EGIJ), International Journal of Electronic Government Research (IJEGR) and Transforming Government: People, Process, and Policy (TGPPP). The overall review indicated that although a large number of papers discuss costs, opportunities, benefits and risks, treatment of these issues have tended to be superficial. Moreover, there is a lack of empirical studies which can statistically evaluate the performance of these constructs in relation to the various e-government systems. Therefore, this research would help governments to better analyse the impact of costs, opportunities, benefits and risks on the success of e-government systems and its pre-adoption from an implementation perspective.']
['Athula GinigeLuca PaolinoMarco RomanoMonica SebilloGenoveffa TortoraGiuliana Vitiello', 'Information Sharing Among Disaster Responders - An Interactive Spreadsheet-Based Collaboration Approach', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-014-9207-0', 'Recent natural disasters have led crisis management organizations to revise their protocols so as to rely on the contribution of a wider range of actors, including simple citizens as well as expert operators, to support decision making activities. Reliable and timely information sharing among members of distributed teams of disaster responders has become paramount for the success of the overall crisis management process. In this paper we propose a crisis management system based on spreadsheet-mediated collaboration among on-site responders and decision makers. To share data a common spreadsheet artifact has been developed by using a participatory design approach which is accessed through mobile user interfaces. The evaluation results showed that the use of the spreadsheet artifact has resulted in more effective decision making relating to set of earthquake management scenarios in high-risk areas located in Italy.']
['Zaheer KhanSaad Liaquat KianiKamran Soomro', 'A framework for cloud-based context-aware information services for citizens in smart cities', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/s13677-014-0014-4', 'In the context of smart cities, public participation and citizen science are key ingredients for informed and intelligent planning decisions and policy-making. However, citizens face a practical challenge in formulating coherent information sets from the large volumes of data available to them. These large data volumes materialise due to the increased utilisation of information and communication technologies in urban settings and local authorities\x92 reliance on such technologies to govern urban settlements efficiently. To encourage effective public participation in urban governance of smart cities, the public needs to be facilitated with the right contextual information about the characteristics and processes of their urban surroundings in order to contribute to the aspects of urban governance that affect them such as socio-economic activities, quality of life, citizens well-being etc. The cities on the other hand face challenges in terms of crowd sourcing with quality data collection and standardisation, services inter-operability, provisioning of computational and data storage infrastructure.']
['Julita Vassileva', 'Motivating participation in social computing applications: a user modeling perspective', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11257-011-9109-5', 'The explosive growth of Web-based social applications over the last 10\xa0years has led people to engage in online communities for various purposes: to work, learn, play, share time and mementos with friends and family and engage in public action. Social Computing Applications (SCA) allow users to discuss various topics in online forums, share their thoughts in blogs, share photos, videos, bookmarks, and connect with friends through social networks. Yet, the design of successful social applications that attract and sustain active contribution by their users still remains more of an art than a science. My research over the last 10\xa0years has been based on the hypothesis that it is possible to incorporate mechanisms and tools in the design of the social application that can motivate users to participate, and more generally, to change their behavior in a desirable way, which is beneficial for the community. Since different people are motivated by different things, it can be expected that personalizing the incentives and the way the rewards are presented to the individual, would be beneficial. Also since communities have different needs in different phases of their existence, it is necessary to model the changing needs of communities and adapt the incentive mechanisms accordingly, to attract the kind of contributions that are beneficial. Therefore User and Group (Community) Modeling is an important area in the design of incentive mechanisms. This paper presents an overview of different approaches to motivate users to participate. These approaches are based on various theories from the area of social psychology and behavioral economics and involve rewards mechanisms, reputation, open group user modeling, and social visualization. Future trends are outlined towards convergence with the areas of persuasive systems design, adaptive/personalized systems, and intelligent social learning environments.']
['D. Barnard-WillsD. Ashenden', 'Public sector engagement with online identity management', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12394-010-0079-2', 'The individual management of online identity, as part of a wider politics of personal information, privacy, and dataveillance, is an area where public policy is developing and where the public sector attempts to intervene. This paper attempts to understand the strategies and methods through which the UK government and public sector is engaging in online identity management. The analysis is framed by the analytics of government (Dean 2010) and governmentality (Miller and Rose 2008). This approach draws attention to the wide assemblage of public and private actors with shared regimes of practice and fields of visibility, as well as to the extent to which individual actors are made responsible for their own identity management. The paper also uses communication and discursive research to examine the potential failings of engagement efforts. Communication theory suggested that the assumption of individual responsibility, alongside linguistic distortions created by this way of understanding the problematic of identity management, complicate and fundamentally limit engagement activity.']
['Liette LapointeJui RamaprasadIsabelle Vedel', 'Creating health awareness: a social media enabled collaboration', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12553-013-0068-1', 'Social media has been an enabler of information dissemination, collaboration and coordination for reasons ranging from personal to political. In healthcare, the context we study here, information dissemination is a key mechanism of creating awareness, a crucial factor in the early detection and prevention of diseases. Thus, in this paper, we look at the role of social media in creating cancer awareness. In particular, we use a multiple case study analysis to examine how individuals and organizations use social media to collaborate to promote such awareness. We find that social media is used to create an online community that drives the creation of cancer awareness in many different ways and for multiple purposes. This research has implications for healthcare organizations in particular, who are looking to use social media to promote awareness, as well as other organizations who may want to use social media in this way.']
['Antonietta GrassoGregorio Convertino', 'Collective Intelligence in Organizations: Tools and Studies', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-012-9165-3', '--Abstract not found--']
['Nikolaos PellasIoannis Kazanidis', 'On the value of Second Life for students\xe2\x80\x99 engagement in blended and online courses: A comparative study from the Higher Education in Greece', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10639-013-9294-4', 'Nowadays three-dimensional (3D) multi-user virtual worlds (VWs) are the most well-known candidate platforms in Higher education. Despite the growing number of notable studies that have presented VWs as valuable platforms for the e-Education, there is still a paucity of a comparative study in order to be determined the degree of the students\x92 engagement in constructionist-collaborative learning scenarios. Concurrently, it seems imperative the need for educators and scholars to identify how can VWs influence students\x92 engagement in contemporary and reliable instructional formats, mainly on blended or online settings for university-level courses. In this study the effects of students\x92 achievements were measured by comparing the degree of students\x92 engagement from two student groups (graduate and undergraduate) enrolled in two different instructional formats (blended/online) held in Second Life (SL) to become learning content developers. The purpose of the current research is to present results from the comparative study of one hundred twenty-five (125) students that finally attended in order to be measured their engagement overall as a multi-dimensional construct consisting of the emotional, behavioral and cognitive factors. The study findings from the quantitative analysis have disclosed that graduate students who participated in online courses achieved more positive learning outcomes and as a result the degree of their engagement was significantly increased than those who enrolled with the blended. In these circumstances there are raised some fundamental educational implications which are also discussed.']
['David A. WallacePatricia PasickZoe BermanElla Weber', 'Stories for Hope\xe2\x80\x93Rwanda: a psychological\xe2\x80\x93archival collaboration to promote healing and cultural continuity through intergenerational dialogue', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10502-014-9232-2', 'Can archives help heal and extend the benefit of therapeutic interventions in a post-genocide environment? We sought to probe this question through an uncommon collaborative documentation and research project linking psychology and archival science: Stories for Hope\x96Rwanda (SFH). This intergenerational dialogue project between youth and elder pairs in post-genocide Rwanda draws upon a collective narrative model from psychology and both community and participatory models from archives. The paper reports on three aspects of this endeavor: (1) description of SFH as a process of dialogue generation and archiving; (2) content analysis of the knowledge post-genocide youth sought from their elders; and (3) a qualitative evaluation of what benefits youth and elder pairs reported 6\x9612\xa0months after their dialogue session, including how participants made use of a personal copy of their dialogue and their decision making and perceptions on making their dialogues more widely available. Specifically, we wanted to know whether psychological benefits would accrue if the silences about genocide could be breached by intergenerational dialogues and whether audio recordings of the dialogues archived for personal, national, and international use could motivate youths and elders over the hurdle of silence and extend the benefits of the dialogues to others. In contrast to interview-driven genocide testimonies, each youth asked an elder to answer some burning questions about the past. In response, elders were directed to share personal, true, and positively helpful stories from their past experiences. Through these efforts, SFH consciously sought to democratize the creation, control, custody, and access to the archive resulting from the recorded dialogues. Based on our analysis, we found that youth were eager to learn most about the genocide (causes, prevention, and stories of loss and survival), followed by family history, marriage, Rwandan culture, living as an orphan, and strategies for forgiveness and reconciliation. We also found that the archival component of the project significantly contributed to both the motivation for participation and the extent of participants\x92 healing. We conclude that this approach can be productively expanded to other post-conflict and post-genocide communities where silence about a traumatic past reigns triumphant and undermines the ability of youth to map a positive future.']
['Bin GuoDaqing ZhangZhiwen YuYunji LiangZhu WangXingshe Zhou', 'From the internet of things to embedded intelligence', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11280-012-0188-y', 'The Internet of Things (IoT) represents the future technology trend of sensing, computing, and communication. Under the Wisdom Web of Things (W2T) vision, the next-generation Internet will promote harmonious interaction among humans, computers, and things. Current research on IoT is primarily conducted from the perspective of identifying, connecting, and managing objects. In this paper, however, we attempt to enhance the IoT with intelligence and awareness under the W2T vision. By exploring the various interactions between humans and the IoT, we extract the \x93embedded\x94 intelligence about individual, environment, and society, which can augment existing IoT systems with user, ambient, and social awareness. The characteristics, major applications, research issues, the reference architecture, as well as our ongoing efforts to embedded intelligence are also presented and discussed.']
['Norbert Jesse', 'Communities: with open-source software towards a vivacious civil society', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-015-0595-6', '\n            Local communities in Germany are under great pressure to modernize their services: high depth rate, increasing expectations concerning the quality of the services, socio-demographic change, environmental issues, regional competition\x97to name only a few of the challenges. In a society based on a federal structure and the principle of subsidiarity, it is almost natural to demand a vivid community with active citizens. Today, with the advent of social media and the new channels of communication, the question is how to leverage the benefits of this concept for local issues. More precise: How can the competence of the citizens be activated to make conditions of living in the neighbourhoods more attractive? In this paper, we discuss technical requirements for an open government. The SAGA standard of the Federal German Government strongly supports the notion of open-source software. With OpenSAGA, we introduce a new, performant and SAGA-compliant framework for the implementation of web applications for e-Government. Consequently, OpenSAGA is the platform for an OpenGovernment Suite, an extended prototype for affordable and interoperable open government solutions.']
['Daniela FogliLoredana Parasiliti ProvenzaCristian Bernareggi', 'A universal design resource for rich Internet applications based on design patterns', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10209-013-0291-6', 'Rich Internet applications have removed most of the constraints of Web 1.0 while giving users more responsiveness and advanced browsing and interaction experiences. These new horizons, however, raise many challenges for people with disabilities or using limited hardware and software technologies, whose risk to be excluded from the benefits deriving from advanced web applications. To address this problem, WCAG 2.0 guidelines have been released as the newest World Wide Web Consortium recommendation for accessible web content, and WAI-ARIA is a candidate recommendation which provides reference specifications for accessible rich Internet applications. However, both specifications contain a huge amount of information that often discourages most web designers from dealing with accessibility issues. Moreover, guidelines are suitable and usually adopted to judge a design solution a posteriori, but they do not suggest how to face a design problem constructively. This paper proposes a design pattern language for accessibility. The language can be regarded as a universal design resource for helping web designers create accessible rich Internet applications compliant with the most recent standards. Knowledge representation through design patterns reflects the problem-solving approach usually followed by software and web designers, while pattern organization in a structured language aims to guide web designers throughout the design process. The language has been implemented as an accessible rich Internet application itself, thus allowing designers with disabilities to participate in web design. In order to evaluate the design pattern language, a three-step process was carried out including: (1) a heuristic analysis with a group of human\x96computer interaction experts, (2) a survey study with a group of web designers, and (3) a validation on the field with two designers who have been requested to apply the language in real design cases.']
['Karin HanssonPetter Karlstr\xc3\xb6mAron LarssonHarko Verhagen', 'Reputation, inequality and meeting techniques: visualising user hierarchy to support collaboration', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10588-013-9165-y', 'Equality within groups is ordinarily taken for granted when technology for e-democracy is conceived and developed. However, inequality in online communication is just as common as in other social contexts. Therefore, we have developed a groupware with the express purpose of illuminating imbalance of power. Inequalities are measured and made visible to users of the system, and they change dynamically as actions are taken by users. The system is based on democratic meeting techniques and is reminiscent of a strategy game based on social media. Each participant\x92s score within the game is dynamically calculated and reflects that user\x92s activity, others\x92 reactions to that activity and reactions to others\x92 activities. The calculations and weighing mechanisms are open to inspection and change by the users, and hierarchical roles reflecting game levels may be attached to system rights belonging to individual users and user groups. The prototype we present stems from the question of how to conceive of groupware based on diversity and is the result of combining social theory with algorithms for modelling and visualising user hierarchy and status. Empirical user tests suggest improvements to the prototype\x92s interface, which will be implemented and further evaluated by embedding the algorithms in a system for e-participation.']
['Nikolaos PellasIoannis Kazanidis', 'The impact of computer self-efficacy, situational interest and academic self-concept in virtual communities of inquiry during the distance learning procedures through Second Life', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11280-013-0266-9', 'The current study investigates a case where the online learning procedure in three-dimensional (3D) technologically-advanced environments of the Web 2.0 is growing at an exponential rate. In this occasion it is highly imperative need to understand students\x92 interactions in this innovative mode of e-Education that requires from educators and scholars not only analysis conceptually, but also an empirically-driven optimization. The community of inquiry (CoI) model (or framework) consists to be as one of the most prominent multi-dimensional constructs that it is widely used to represent several distinct dimensions of social presence, teaching presence and cognitive presence, as a unique and fundamental theoretical concept to measure students\x92 interactions in contemporary electronic environments. Although, the effectiveness of these multi-dimensional constructs creates a dilemma to researchers who want the breadth and comprehensiveness of this model for the precision and clarity of users\x92 (instructors and students) dimensions with other motivational and learning variables. To address this dilemma, the current empirical study presents statistical analyses from the \x93trinity\x94 constructs of the CoI model by utilizing correlation and hierarchical regression analyses with two fundamental motivational (computer self-efficacy and situational interest) and another one learning (academic self-concept) variables. This study goes one step further and introduces the conspicuously indisputable intervention of a virtual (V)CoI and its utilization in multi-user virtual worlds, like Second Life (SL). The study findings of one hundred thirty-five (135) participants who enrolled in several online sessions unveiled that the situational interest was the only significant predictor of social presence. The computer self-efficacy was not a significant predictor of the CoI model, while on the other hand academic self-concept was a significant predictor in a revamped attempt to validate the strong relationship among constructs within it. According to the aforementioned reasons, it can be surmised that the successful combination of the VCoI in Second Life, surpassing irrefutable and inherent shortcomings to a future-driven sustainable use and growth.']
['William F. Birdsall', 'Human capabilities and information and communication technology: the communicative connection', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-010-9260-4', 'The potential contributions information and communication technology (ICT) can make to advancing human capabilities are acknowledged by both the capability approach (CA) and ICT communities. However, there is a lack of genuine engagement between the two communities. This paper addresses the question: How can a collaborative dialogue between the CA and ICT communities be advanced? A prerequisite to exploring collaboratively the potential use of particular technologies with specific capabilities is a conceptual framework within which a dialogue can be undertaken to advance the operationalization of capabilities through the use of ICT. A communicative connection constituted of a dialogic space consisting of the CA and ICT communities and a set of normative values and objectives is proposed. The normative values of the communicative connection are derived from the human right to communicate (RTC) which serves as axiomatic principle of the communicative connection. The shared objectives are to operationalize through the use of ICT both the capability and the right to communicate, which are distinct but present in and reinforce each other. Alternative concepts of communication and freedom of expression to those held by the two communities is presented along with a comparison of the values embodied in the RTC and found in the CA.']
['Nicholas MeeseChris McMahon', 'Knowledge sharing for sustainable development in civil engineering: a systematic review', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-011-0369-8', 'Sustainable development (SD) knowledge in civil engineering-related disciplines is evolving rapidly. As such, it is increasingly important that engineers share SD knowledge to allow them to systematically enhance the environmental performance of engineered systems. This systematic review identifies published primary data collection studies of SD knowledge sharing (KS) approaches in a civil engineering-related context with the aim of understanding the KS concepts studied, the research strategies used and the key KS findings. A predefined research protocol guided the selection of relevant studies. Analysis revealed that collaboration and education were the major KS concepts and that most studies reside at the positivist end of the research strategy spectrum. Practically all of the identified studies emphasise the need for social interfacing, which enhances the way engineers share complex SD knowledge. The article concludes by describing the practical implications of the research.']
['David MartinJacki O\xe2\x80\x99NeillNeha GuptaBenjamin V. Hanrahan', 'Turking in a Global Labour Market', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-015-9241-6', 'This paper examines how working in the global labour market of Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT) impacts upon and is understood by two different groups of workers. To do this we report on two qualitative studies; one of US and another of Indian crowdworkers (or \x91Turkers\x92) that we analysed from an ethnomethodological orientation. Our data is naturalistic and comes from a variety of sources\x97interviews, observations and forum posts\x97where Turkers describe their work, and their understandings of that work and of the transnational market they work in. We compare and contrast their situations, their reflections on the marketplace and its global reach, and we take a look at their understandings of one another. Our focus is on \x91the work to making turking work\x92 (Martin et al. 2014). That is, the work that turkers do to organise and make sense of their work as they operate in the AMT marketplace, such that they can do so effectively. AMT is a technologically mediated marketplace\x97that is the distribution, completion and payment of work is done online, almost completely through the AMT platform. The design of the platform has important consequences for how Turkers experience and understand the market (including its global or transnational nature). We discuss how our findings relate to a variety of CSCW issues and provide an initial examination of how they relate to globalisation both as a mundanely experienced phenomenon and as a topic of academic interest. We finish the article by drawing on our own experiences in research and design to look at how technology can be used to intervene in a market like this to try to address imbalances in power and agency between employers and workers.']
['Shashi ShekharSteven FeinerWalid G. Aref', 'From GPS and virtual globes to spatial computing - 2020', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10707-015-0235-9', 'Spatial computing is a set of ideas, solutions, tools, technologies, and systems that transform our lives with a new prospect of understanding, navigating, visualizing and using locations. In this community whitepaper, we present a perspective on the changing world of spatial computing, research challenges and opportunities and geoprivacy issues for spatial computing. First, this paper provides an overview of the changing world of spatial computing. Next, promising technologies that resulted from the integration of spatial computing in the everyday lives of people is discussed. This integration results with promising technologies, research challenges and opportunities and geoprivacy issues that must be addressed to achieve the potential of spatial computing.']
['Luis Felipe Herrera-QuinteroKlaus BanseYeimmy Ca\xc3\xb1on-LozanoAngie Melo-CastilloCesar Augusto Gomez-Perilla', 'Web service platform for automatic generation of O/D matrix', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/1687-1499-2014-115', 'Transportation planning is an important process to support the mobility of the cities, which is a growing problem in several Latin American countries. To face this problem, a normal transportation tool has been used, even until now, and it is known as the origin/destination (O/D) matrix. This matrix allows estimation of the movement of users and future demand on the transportation system and helps improve the planning, travel allocation, and routes of transportation. The novelty of this paper is focused on the design and implementation of a web service platform that can construct automatically the O/D matrix. This platform takes advantage of the service-oriented architecture (SOA) approach and web and mobile applications for the construction of this matrix. In addition, the system is used for public transportation system and takes advantage of Bluetooth technology as a very good approach to construct this matrix.']
['Rolando Medellin-GasqueChris ReedVicki L. Hanson', 'Recommendations to support interaction with broadcast debates: a study on older adults\xe2\x80\x99 interaction with The Moral Maze', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-014-0578-z', '\n            Current methods to capture, analyse and present the audience participation of broadcast events are increasingly carried out using social media. Uptake of such technology tools has so far been poor amongst older adults, and it has the worrying effect of excluding the demographic from participation. Our work explores whether a common desire to interact with debates can be tapped with technology with a very low barrier to entry, to both support better engagement with broadcast debates and encourage greater use of social media. This paper describes experiments where older adults interact with a BBC radio debate programme: The Moral Maze. As a result, we obtained common interaction patterns which then are used to define recommendations for software-supported interaction with debates based on theories of argumentation. Our goal is to combine research on computational models of argument and user-driven research on human-centred computing in a project with the potential for high-profile impact in addressing older adults inclusion in the digital economy.\n            ']
['Anthony I. Wasserman', 'How the Internet transformed the software industry', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13174-011-0019-x', 'The growth of the Internet has had a huge impact on the software industry, from the ease of creating new businesses to the processes that companies use to develop, distribute, and support their products. Software architectures and platforms for web applications differ significantly from traditional desktop and client-server applications, and require a new generation of programming languages and development tools. Developers make extensive use of open source software, particularly at the infrastructure level of their applications. Development teams can easily use Internet-based tools for collaboration, thus facilitating distributed organizations. Product marketing now emphasizes attracting prospective customers to the company\x92s website. Companies can release products over the Internet, or provide a hosted web application, both of which are more efficient and less expensive ways to sell their products. Companies can also support their products over the Internet through online discussion forums, often with users helping one another. Ongoing advances in mobile and cloud computing, styles of user interaction, and software business models are certain to have a large effect, leading to innovative new products from both new and established companies.']
['David WrightKush Wadhwa', 'Mainstreaming the e-excluded in Europe: strategies, good practices and some ethical issues', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-009-9213-y', 'E-inclusion is getting a lot of attention in Europe these days. The European Commission and EU Member States have initiated e-inclusion strategies aimed at reaching out to the e-excluded and bringing them into the mainstream of society and the economy. The benefits of mainstreaming the excluded are numerous. Good practices play an important role in the strategies, and examples can be found in e-health, e-learning, e-government, e-inclusion and other e-domains. So laudable seems the rationale for e-inclusion, few have questioned the benefits. In fact, e-inclusion does raise ethical issues, and this paper discusses a few of the key ones. The paper draws several conclusions, principally regarding the need for some empirical research on what happens to the e-excluded once they have access to information and communications technologies, notably the Internet.']
['Nikolaj Gandrup BorchorstBrenda McPhailKaren Louise SmithJoseph FerenbokAndrew Clement', 'Bridging Identity Gaps\xe2\x80\x94Supporting Identity Performance in Citizen Service Encounters', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-012-9163-5', 'This paper explores in situ citizen service encounters in government offices. Drawing upon ethnographically informed fieldwork in Canada and Denmark, we discuss the challenges to supporting citizens in constructing and performing identities in public service settings. Our data suggests that citizens make use of at least three strategies in their attempts to perform the appropriate identities needed to \x93fit within the system\x94 in specific encounters with government. There exists a strong correlation between citizens\x92 ability to perform identities that are compatible with the bureaucratic administrative processes and the quality and swiftness of the service they receive. As we bring to light in this paper, this \x93fitting in\x94 with rigid bureaucratic procedures and IT systems interestingly requires a substantial collaborative effort between the receiver(s) of the service and a complex constellation of surrounding stakeholders and intermediaries. This collaboration and the performing of multiple identities raises challenges for the design of e-government systems aimed at supporting physical and digital citizen service provision, as well as issues regarding privacy, citizenship, and public service quality. Lastly, we turn to a discussion of how the established identity gaps can be addressed through design. Information and communication technologies as well as face-to-face encounters have an important role to play in the building of an interface to government. Here, it is paramount to consider the context in which people and systems must function in order to meet the need for dynamic identity performance.']
['Fiorella de CindioLaura Anna Ripamonti', 'Nature and roles for community networks in the information society', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-009-0261-y', 'This paper draws on the authors more than 10\xa0years of involvement in the action research experience of the Milan Community Network. It discusses the roles that community networks play in the Information Society: starting from a neat characterization of \x93online community\x94, community networks are presented as ICT learning communities, as local online communities and as complementary to Digital Cities. Finally, critical insights into institutional aspects of community networks are considered from the perspective of their sustainability.']
['Christine GreenhowEmilia Askari', 'Learning and teaching with social network sites: A decade of research in K-12 related education', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10639-015-9446-9', "The increasingly widespread use of social network sites to expand and deepen one\x92s social connections is a relatively new but potentially important phenomenon that has implications for teaching and learning and teacher education in the 21st century. This paper surveys the educational research literature to examine: How such technologies are perceived and used by K-12 learners and teachers with what impacts on pedagogy or students' learning. Selected studies were summarized and categorized according to the four types introduced by Roblyer (2005) as studies most needed to move the educational technology field forward. These include studies that establish the technology\x92s effectiveness at improving student learning; investigate implementation strategies; monitor social impact; and report on common uses to shape the direction of the field. We found the most prevalent type of study conducted related to our focal topic was research on common uses. The least common type of study conducted was research that established the technology\x92s effectiveness at improving student learning. Implications for the design of future research and teacher education initiatives are discussed."]
['Nina Bonderup Dohn', 'Web 2.0: Inherent tensions and evident challenges for education', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11412-009-9066-8', 'In upper tertiary educational programmes around the world, the new Web-mediated communication practices termed Web 2.0 are introduced as learning activities with the goal of facilitating learning through collaborative knowledge construction. The aim of this paper is to point to discrepancies in the views of learning, knowledge, and the goals of the practice implicit in Web 2.0 and educational practices and to argue that these discrepancies lead to theoretical tensions and practical challenges when Web 2.0 practices are utilized for educational purposes. The article is structured into four main parts: First, Web 2.0 is characterized from a practice perspective. Second, some conceptual discrepancies between the \x93practice logics\x94 of Web 2.0 and educational practices are identified. Third, the question of transcending the discrepancies is raised through a discussion of related pedagogical strategies. Fourth, it is argued that the conceptual discrepancies bear out in practice as concrete challenges concerning collaboration, evaluation, and the general aim and status of the material produced by students. These challenges are illustrated with examples from the author\x92s practical experience with Web 2.0-mediated learning activities in eight courses at the BA and MA levels.']
['Bhaskar Prasad RimalAdmela JukanDimitrios KatsarosYves Goeleven', 'Architectural Requirements for Cloud Computing Systems: An Enterprise Cloud Approach', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10723-010-9171-y', 'Cloud Computing is a model of service delivery and access where dynamically scalable and virtualized resources are provided as a service over the Internet. This model creates a new horizon of opportunity for enterprises. It introduces new operating and business models that allow customers to pay for the resources they effectively use, instead of making heavy upfront investments. The biggest challenge in Cloud Computing is the lack of a de facto standard or single architectural method, which can meet the requirements of an enterprise cloud approach. In this paper, we explore the architectural features of Cloud Computing and classify them according to the requirements of end-users, enterprises that use the cloud as a platform, and cloud providers themselves. We show that several architectural features will play a major role in the adoption of the Cloud Computing paradigm as a mainstream commodity in the enterprise world. This paper also provides key guidelines to software architects and Cloud Computing application developers for creating future architectures.']
['Pia Niemel\xc3\xa4Ville Isom\xc3\xb6tt\xc3\xb6nenLasse Lipponen', 'Successful design of learning solutions being situation aware', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10639-014-9311-2', 'Education is increasingly enhanced by technology, and at the same time, the rapid pace of technology innovation and growing demand of consumers introduces challenges for providers of technological learning solutions. This paper investigates Finnish small and medium size companies who either develop or deliver technological solutions for education. Twelve companies were interviewed in order to capture the entrepreneurial narratives of successful design of learning solutions. Data was analyzed based on a conceptual framework. The framework draws on the situation awareness concept, meaning that we seek to answer the question how the participant enterprises examine relevant elements in their environment with regard to their development process. The results show that all the mature companies included in the study have well balanced situation awareness, but amongst the incubating and accelerating enterprises, balanced profiles are rare.']
['Roberto CossuMonique PetitdidierJulian LinfordVincent BadouxLuigi FuscoBenoit GotabLadislav HluchyGiuditta LeccaFabrizio MurgiaCamiel PlevierPhilippe RenardHorst SchwichtenbergWim Som de CerffViet TranGerald Vetois', 'A roadmap for a dedicated Earth Science Grid platform', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12145-010-0045-4', 'Due to its intensive data processing and highly distributed organization, the multidisciplinary Earth Science applications community is uniquely positioned for the uptake and exploitation of Grid technologies. Currently Enabling Grids for E-sciencE, and other large Grid infrastructures are already deployed and capable of operational services. So far however, the adoption and exploitation of Grid technology throughout the Earth Science community has been slower than expected. The Dissemination and Exploitation of GRids in Earth sciencE project, proposed by the European Commission to assist and accelerate this process in a number of different ways, had between its main goals the creation of a roadmap towards Earth Science Grid platform. This paper presents the resulting roadmap.']
['Jeffrey R. BlumAlexander EichhornSeverin SmithMichael Sterle-ContalaJeremy R. Cooperstock', 'Real-time emergency response: improved management of real-time information during crisis situations', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12193-013-0139-7', 'The decision-making process during crisis and emergency scenarios intertwines human intelligence with infocommunications. In such scenarios, the tasks of data acquisition, manipulation, and analysis involve a combination of cognitive processes and information and communications technologies, all of which are vital to effective situational awareness and response capability. To support such capabilities, we describe our real time emergency response (rtER) system, implemented with the intention of helping to manage the potential torrents of data that are available during a crisis, and that could easily overwhelm human cognitive capacity in the absence of technological mediation. Specifically, rtER seeks to address the research challenges surrounding the real-time collection of relevant data, especially live video, making this information rapidly available to a team of humans, and giving them the tools to manipulate, tag, and filter the most critical information of relevance to the situation.']
['Emma A. Jane', 'Flaming? What flaming? The pitfalls and potentials of researching online hostility', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-015-9362-0', 'This article identifies several critical problems with the last 30\xa0years of research into hostile communication on the internet and offers suggestions about how scholars might address these problems and better respond to an emergent and increasingly dominant form of online discourse which I call \x91e-bile\x92. Although e-bile is new in terms of its prevalence, rhetorical noxiousness, and stark misogyny, prototypes of this discourse\x97most commonly referred to as \x91flaming\x92\x97have always circulated on the internet, and, as such, have been discussed by scholars from a range of disciplines. Nevertheless, my review of this vast body of literature reveals that online hostility has historically posed a number of conceptual, methodological, and epistemological challenges due to which scholars have typically underplayed, overlooked, ignored, or otherwise marginalised its prevalence and serious ethical and material ramifications. Fortunately, lessons learned from my analysis suggests promising approaches for future research into this challenging form of new media discourse.']
['Patrice Caire', 'Designing convivial digital cities: a social intelligence design approach', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-009-0201-x', 'Conviviality has been identified as a key concept necessary to web communities, such as digital cities, and while it has been simultaneously defined in literature as individual freedom realized in personal interdependence, rational and cooperative behavior and normative instrument, no model for conviviality has yet been proposed for computer science. In this article, we raised the question whether social intelligence design could be used to designing convivial digital cities. We first looked at digital cities and identified, from a social intelligence design point of view, two main categories of digital cities: public websites and commercial websites; we also noted the experimental qualities of digital cities. Second, we analyzed the concept of conviviality for social science, multi-agent systems and intelligent interface; we showed the distinction among various kinds of use of conviviality, the positive outcomes such as social cohesion, trust and participation but also the negative aspects that emerged when conviviality became an instrument of power relations. Fourth, we looked at the normative aspect of conviviality as described in the literature and found that social norms for conviviality paralleled legal and institutional norms for digital cities. Finally, as a first step toward obtaining measures for conviviality, we presented a case study describing agents and user\x92s interactions using dependence graphs. We also presented an analysis of conviviality requirements and described our plan and methodology for designing convivial digital cities.']
['Ina Wagner', 'Building Urban Narratives: Collaborative Site-Seeing and Envisioning in the MR Tent', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-011-9152-0', 'The focus of this paper is on studying mixed teams of urban planners, citizens and other stakeholders co-constructing their vision for the future of a site. The MR Tent provides a very specific collaborative setting: an assembly of technologies brought outdoors onto the site of an urban project, which offers vistas onto the site as well as a multiplicity of representations of the site to work with, in different media and taken from different perspectives. The prime focus of this paper is on the complex narratives participants co-constructed in three participatory workshops, with the aim to understand how the core aspects of the MR Tent\x97spatiality, representation and haptic engagement\x97shape these narratives. Main findings of this research concern: how the design of the multi-layered space of the MR-Tent supports spatial story-telling; how the different representations of the site of an urban project offer the opportunity to choreograph a \x91site-seeing\x92 that helps participants understand the site and plan interventions; how the \x91tangibles\x92 in the MR-Tent encourage a different way of contributing to a shared project and \x91building a vision\x92.']
['Jenifer Sunrise Winter', 'Surveillance in ubiquitous network societies: normative conflicts related to the consumer in-store supermarket experience in the context of the Internet of Things', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-013-9332-3', 'The Internet of Things (IoT) is an emerging global infrastructure that employs wireless sensors to collect, store, and exchange data. Increasingly, applications for marketing and advertising have been articulated as a means to enhance the consumer shopping experience, in addition to improving efficiency. However, privacy advocates have challenged the mass aggregation of personally-identifiable information in databases and geotracking, the use of location-based services to identify one\x92s precise location over time. This paper employs the framework of contextual integrity related to privacy developed by Nissenbaum (Privacy in context: technology, policy, and the integrity of social life. Stanford University Press, Stanford, 2010) as a tool to understand citizen response to implementation IoT-related technology in the supermarket. The purpose of the study was to identify and understand specific changes in information practices brought about by the IoT that may be perceived as privacy violations. Citizens were interviewed, read a scenario of near-term IoT implementation, and were asked to reflect on changes in the key actors involved, information attributes, and\xa0principles of transmission. Areas where new practices may occur with the IoT were then highlighted as potential problems (privacy violations). Issues identified included the mining of medical data, invasive targeted advertising, and loss of autonomy through marketing profiles or personal affect monitoring. While there were numerous aspects deemed desirable by the participants, some developments appeared to tip the balance between consumer benefit and corporate gain. This surveillance power creates an imbalance between the consumer and the corporation that may also impact individual autonomy. The ethical dimensions of this problem are discussed.']
['Neil T. HeffernanKorinn S. OstrowKim KellyDouglas SelentEric G. Van InwegenXiaolu XiongJoseph Jay Williams', 'The Future of Adaptive Learning: Does the Crowd Hold the Key?', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s40593-016-0094-z', 'Due to substantial scientific and practical progress, learning technologies can effectively adapt to the characteristics and needs of students. This article considers how learning technologies can adapt over time by crowdsourcing contributions from teachers and students \x96 explanations, feedback, and other pedagogical interactions. Considering the context of ASSISTments, an online learning platform, we explain how interactive mathematics exercises can provide the workflow necessary for eliciting feedback contributions and evaluating those contributions, by simply tapping into the everyday system usage of teachers and students. We discuss a series of randomized controlled experiments that are currently running within ASSISTments, with the goal of establishing proof of concept that students and teachers can serve as valuable resources for the perpetual improvement of adaptive learning technologies. We also consider how teachers and students can be motivated to provide such contributions, and discuss the plans surrounding PeerASSIST, an infrastructure that will help ASSISTments to harness the power of the crowd. Algorithms from machine learning (i.e., multi-armed bandits) will ideally provide a mechanism for managerial control, allowing for the automatic evaluation of contributions and the personalized provision of the highest quality content. In many ways, the next 25\xa0years of adaptive learning technologies will be driven by the crowd, and this article serves as the road map that ASSISTments has chosen to follow.']
['ZhenFeng ShaoDeRen Li', 'Image City sharing platform and its typical applications', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11432-011-4307-7', 'In this paper, the trend of urban spatial information sharing service from the electronic map to image is analyzed and its sharing framework based on service-oriented architecture is designed. Moreover, the service implementation, feedback data service procedure and its processing service model are explored. Based on the software with independent intellectual property rights, image city of Taizhou is developed as an example to realize various image data and processing services. Lastly, the bright future prospects of image city are described.']
['Ari-Veikko Anttiroiko', 'U-cities reshaping our future: reflections on ubiquitous infrastructure as an enabler of smart urban development', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-013-0443-5', 'This article discusses the background, nature and application of the concept of ubiquitous city, presenting u-city initiatives of affluent and techno-savvy cities in Asia and the West with special reference to the case of South Korea. The focus is on how ubiquitous technologies have been and can be utilised in developing urban infrastructure, including town planning, street and property maintenance, water supply, public transportation and environmental protection. Such an emerging infrastructure is expected to provide everyone with an opportunity to access urban infrastructure and services with the help of ubiquitous technologies. However, in order to become reality, this requires some kind of democratisation of technology, which is a neglected topic in u-city discourse. It is also important to analyse u-city developments from the point of view of production of space with special reference to the potential colonisation of everyday life. Theoretically speaking, one answer to such compelling questions about the rationale of u-city development can be sought from the idea of the \x91right to the city\x92, a slogan originally coined by Henri Lefebvre. This approach highlights the importance of involving people to envisioning the future of urban form starting from the perspective of their everyday life. Such a dimension should be given more prominent role in current u-city developments.']
['Ig Ibert BittencourtMaria Cec\xc3\xadlia BaranauskasRoberto PereiraDiego DermevalSeiji IsotaniPatr\xc3\xadcia Jaques', 'A systematic review on multi-device inclusive environments', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10209-015-0422-3', 'The challenge of designing universal access to knowledge demands considerations on multi-device interaction. A systematic review of inclusive environments built from multiple devices was conducted based on studies published during the period of 2002\x962013. The search strategy combined manual and automatic searches from which 8889 studies were identified; 34 studies were found proposing software tools for building multi-device inclusive environments (0.38\xa0% of the original sample). Thus, this study analyzes the ways academic and industrial communities have developed tools for building inclusive environments. The main findings of this review are: (1) an urgent need for the recognition of accessibility as an important non-functional requirement; (2) a need for taking into account the social conditions of users, such as illiteracy and people living in underserved communities; and (3) the identification of new research questions in the context of multi-device inclusive environments.']
['Jose TeixeiraGregorio RoblesJes\xc3\xbas M. Gonz\xc3\xa1lez-Barahona', 'Lessons learned from applying social network analysis on an industrial Free/Libre/Open Source Software ecosystem', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/s13174-015-0028-2', 'Many software projects are no longer done in-house by a single organization. Instead, we are in a new age where software is developed by a networked community of individuals and organizations, which base their relations to each other on mutual interest. Paradoxically, recent research suggests that software development can actually be jointly-developed by rival firms. For instance, it is known that the mobile-device makers Apple and Samsung kept collaborating in open source projects while running expensive patent wars in the court. Taking a case study approach, we explore how rival firms collaborate in the open source arena by employing a multi-method approach that combines qualitative analysis of archival data (QA) with mining software repositories (MSR) and Social Network Analysis (SNA). While exploring collaborative processes within the OpenStack ecosystem, our research contributes to Software Engineering research by exploring the role of groups, sub-communities and business models within a high-networked open source ecosystem. Surprising results point out that competition for the same revenue model (i.e., operating conflicting business models) does not necessary affect collaboration within the ecosystem. Moreover, while detecting the different sub-communities of the OpenStack community, we found out that the expected social tendency of developers to work with developers from same firm (i.e., homophony) did not hold within the OpenStack ecosystem. Furthermore, while addressing a novel, complex and unexplored open source case, this research also contributes to the management literature in coopetition strategy and high-tech entrepreneurship with a rich description on how heterogeneous actors within a high-networked ecosystem (involving individuals, startups, established firms and public organizations) joint-develop a complex infrastructure for big-data in the open source arena.']
['Sabine NiedererRuurd Priester', 'Smart Citizens: Exploring the Tools of the Urban Bottom-Up Movement', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-016-9249-6', 'As web technology and (big) data continue to transform how we organize ourselves, scholarly research increasingly zooms in on the socio-material conditions of citizen participation and public engagement, the objects and devices that organize publics. Where social issues may often be the driver of such public engagement, increasingly the city and, more specifically, the neighborhood itself have become a central objects connecting their inhabitants through online networks and neighborhood events. Tools and apps for citizen participation then weave together neighborhood stakeholders (e.g. inhabitants, municipal parties and entrepreneurs). This paper zooms in on a sample of 40 such tools that enable and organize bottom-up citizen participation in the city of Amsterdam. Combining a theoretical framework with content analysis, digital methods and data visualization, this paper marks the starting point of a longitudinal analysis of online tools for the urban bottom-up movement.']
['Zaheer KhanDavid LudlowRichard McClatcheyAshiq Anjum', 'An architecture for integrated intelligence in urban management using cloud computing', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/2192-113X-1-1', 'With the emergence of new methodologies and technologies it has now become possible to manage large amounts of environmental sensing data and apply new integrated computing models to acquire information intelligence. This paper advocates the application of cloud technologies to support the information, communication and decision making needs of a wide variety of stakeholders in the complex business of the management of urban and regional development. The complexity is evident in the socio-economic and environmental interactions and impacts embodied in the concept of the urban-ecosystem. This highlights the need for more effective integrated environmental management systems. A key to understanding the nature of integrated environmental management systems is the identification of the need for horizontal integration of information across sectoral inter-agency boundaries at the local level, and the need for vertical coordination between levels of governance. This paper offers a user-oriented approach to the specification of requirements for the effective management of urban areas and the potential contributions that can be supported by cloud computing. The commonality of the influence of the drivers of change at the urban level offers the opportunity for the cloud computing community to develop generic solutions that can serve the needs of hundreds of cities throughout Europe and indeed globally. In this respect, different cloud based architecture scenarios are presented which utilise capabilities compliant to various standards in generating information and intelligence for urban governance.']
['Kim WuytsGriet VerhennemanRiccardo ScandariatoWouter JoosenJos Dumortier', 'What electronic health records don\xe2\x80\x99t know just yet. A privacy analysis for patient communities and health records interaction', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12553-012-0026-3', 'The advent of Web 2.0 has resulted in the emergence of a new generation of user-centric applications. Healthcare too follows this trend and a whole range of health-related applications are being introduced. Electronic health record (EHR) systems are being developed to enable electronic storing and sharing of medical data between health practitioners. Recently, initial steps have been taken to evolve toward cross-border sharing of EHR data. Patients also become more involved in their healthcare and start storing their health data online in personal health record (PHR) systems or look for online support and medical advice from other patients with similar diseases or treatments. The consolidation of these different systems is described as a promising approach to bring healthcare to a higher level. A consequence of this evolution is the rise of new privacy threats to the patient\x92s medical data, as more data becomes easily accessible to more people. Not only the treating physicians have access to the health data, the patient himself will have direct access to it and even be in control of his data and the access to it. As a first step in the answer to this trend, this paper presents a legally-founded analysis of the privacy issues emerging from the integration of EHR and patient communities. First, a taxonomy of health data types and user roles that have a key role in integrated health record systems is proposed. Second, privacy-preserving access rights are discussed and a set of privacy-aware access levels are suggested. Finally, ethical, legal, and technically challenges are highlighted, and a set of high-level privacy-enhancing technical requirements are presented.']
['Devan RosenGeorge A. BarnettJang Hyun Kim', 'Social networks and online environments: when science and practice co-evolve', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13278-010-0011-7', 'The science of social network analysis has co-evolved with the development of online environments and computer-mediated communication. Unique and precise data available from computer and information systems have allowed network scientists to explore novel social phenomena and develop new methods. Additionally, advances in the structural analysis and visualization of computer-mediated social networks have informed developers and shaped the design of social media tools. This article reviews some examples of research that highlight the ways that social network analysis has evolved with online data. Examples include the international hyperlink network, political blogs and hyperlinks, social media, and multi-user virtual environments. The data available from online environments makes several important contributions to network science, including reliable network flow data, unique forms of relational data across a myriad of contexts, and dynamic data allowing for longitudinal analysis and the animation of social networks.']
['Lisbeth Rodr\xc3\xadguez-MazahuaCristian-Aar\xc3\xb3n Rodr\xc3\xadguez-Enr\xc3\xadquezJos\xc3\xa9 Luis S\xc3\xa1nchez-CervantesJair CervantesJorge Luis Garc\xc3\xada-AlcarazGiner Alor-Hern\xc3\xa1ndez', 'A general perspective of Big Data: applications, tools, challenges and trends', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11227-015-1501-1', 'Big Data has become a very popular term. It refers to the enormous amount of structured, semi-structured and unstructured data that are exponentially generated by high-performance applications in many domains: biochemistry, genetics, molecular biology, physics, astronomy, business, to mention a few. Since the literature of Big Data has increased significantly in recent years, it becomes necessary to develop an overview of the state-of-the-art in Big Data. This paper aims to provide a comprehensive review of Big Data literature of the last 4\xa0years, to identify the main challenges, areas of application, tools and emergent trends of Big Data. To meet this objective, we have analyzed and classified 457 papers concerning Big Data. This review gives relevant information to practitioners and researchers about the main trends in research and application of Big Data in different technical domains, as well as a reference overview of Big Data tools.']
['John M. CarrollGregorio ConvertinoUmer FarooqMary Beth Rosson', 'The firekeepers: aging considered as a resource', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10209-011-0229-9', 'Technology can improve the quality of life for elderly persons by supporting and facilitating the unique leadership roles that elderly play in groups, communities, and other organizations. Elderly people are often organizational firekeepers. They maintain community memory, pass on organizational practices, and ensure social continuity. This paper reports studies of several essential community roles played by elderly community members\x97including the role of volunteer community webmaster\x97and describes two positive design projects that investigated how technology can support new kinds of social endeavors and contributions to society by elderly citizens. Finally, the paper speculates on the utility of intergenerational teams in strengthening society\x92s workforce.']
['Cecile ParisNathalie ColineauSurya NepalSanat Kumar BistaGina Beschorner', 'Ethical considerations in an online community: the balancing act', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-013-9315-4', 'With the emergence and rapid growth of Social Media, a number of government departments in several countries have embraced Social Media as a privilege channel to interact with their constituency. We are exploring, in collaboration with the Australian Department of Human Services, the possibility to exploit the potential of social networks to support specific groups of citizens. To this end, we have developed Next Step, an online community to help people currently receiving welfare payments find a job and become financially self-sufficient. In this paper, we explore some ethical issues that arise when governments engage directly with citizens, in particular with communities in difficult situations, and when researchers are involved. We describe some of the challenges we faced and how we addressed them. Our work highlights the complexity of the problem, when an online community involves a government department and a welfare recipient group with a dependency relationship with that department. It becomes a balancing act, with the need to ensure privacy of the community members whilst still fulfilling the government\x92s legal responsibilities. While difficult, these issues must be addressed if governments are to engage with their citizens using Social Media.']
['Rodrigo BonacinAmanda M. MeloCarlos A. C. SimoniM. Cec\xc3\xadlia C. Baranauskas', 'Accessibility and interoperability in e-government systems: outlining an inclusive development process', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10209-009-0157-0', 'The multidisciplinary nature of e-government demands a research agenda that includes issues related to social inclusion, universal accessibility, interoperability, privacy, security, and citizen participation, to name a few. Understanding the underlying cultural context, the involvement of citizens in the proposal and evaluation of services, and the promotion of quality in use are aspects that need special consideration in the development of systems to support government. This paper provides an outline for a process model for promoting the identification and specification of accessible e-government services with the participation of the interested parties. A socially shared perspective is adopted toward the comprehension of the involved problems and the elaboration of potential solutions. The proposed model is a result of practice in the domain, using organizational semiotics artifacts to stimulate participation and discussion.']
['Thea van der GeestHans van der MeijCarolina van Puffelen', 'Self-assessed and actual Internet skills of people with visual impairments', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10209-013-0304-5', 'The Internet can make available to people with a visual impairment information and services that are otherwise inaccessible. But do visually impaired users actually use common Internet applications and do they have the necessary skills? This article reports a two-part study addressing these questions. The first part was an interview study in which 73 young and 69 older Dutch people with a visual impairment were questioned about usage of applications such as e-mail, chat, and web forms, and their self-perceived competence. The young participants reported more frequent use of Internet applications and mentioned multiple goals (i.e., social and educational), compared to the older. Both groups considered themselves reasonably competent, with the young rating themselves higher. The second part was a case study with 20 young and 20 older participants from the first study, who performed common Internet tasks, using websites or applications that complied with accessibility guidelines. Task performance was analyzed in detail for demonstrated skills. Actual performance proved to be unrelated to self-rated competence. Moreover, the competence of both young and older participants fell far short of what active participation in society requires, especially for the more complex information and strategic skills. The success rate on the performance tasks was low. People with a visual impairment should receive extensive support for the acquisition of higher-level skills that are called upon when using Internet information and services in order to participate in society.']
['Carol K. K. Chan', 'Bridging research and practice: Implementing and sustaining knowledge building in Hong Kong classrooms', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11412-011-9121-0', 'Despite major theoretical progress in computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL), relatively less attention has been paid to the problem of how research advances may impact schools and classrooms. Given the global changes and educational policies for twenty-first century education, issues of how research in CSCL can be integrated with classroom practice for innovation pose important challenges. This paper draws on experiences in Hong Kong and examines research-based CSCL classroom innovations in the context of scaling up and sustaining a knowledge-building model in Hong Kong classrooms. It begins with an examination of the rationale for CSCL research in classrooms and then considers a range of problems and constraints for school implementation. Classroom innovations involve complex and emergent changes occurring at different levels of the educational system. The experience of CSCL knowledge-building classroom innovations in Hong Kong schools is reported, including: the macro-context of educational policies and educational reform, the meso-context of a knowledge-building teacher network, and the micro-context of knowledge-building design in classrooms. Three interacting themes\x97context and systemic change, capacity and community building, and innovation as inquiry\x97are proposed for examining collaboration and knowledge creation for classroom innovation.']
['Bettina Berendt', 'More than modelling and hiding: towards a comprehensive view of Web mining and privacy', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10618-012-0254-1', 'Over the last decade, privacy has been widely recognised as one of the major problems of data collections in general and the Web in particular. This concerns specifically data arising from Web usage (such as querying or transacting) and social networking (characterised by rich self-profiling including relational information) and the inferences drawn from them. The data mining community has been very conscious of these issues and has addressed in particular the inference problems through various methods for \x93privacy-preserving data mining\x94 and \x93privacy-preserving data publishing\x94. However, it appears that these approaches by themselves cannot effectively solve the privacy problems posed by mining. We argue that this is due to the underlying notions of privacy and of data mining, both of which are too narrow. Drawing on notions of privacy not only as hiding, but as control and negotiation, as well as on data mining not only as modelling, but as the whole cycle of knowledge discovery, we offer an alternative view. This is intended to be a comprehensive view of the privacy challenges as well as solution approaches along all phases of the knowledge discovery cycle. The paper thus combines a survey with an outline of an agenda for a comprehensive, interdisciplinary view of Web mining and privacy.']
['Wallace J. TaylorStewart MarshallShahram Amiri', 'The e-volution of the i-society in the delivery of e-government', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-010-0288-0', '--Abstract not found--']
['Teemu TossavainenShun ShiramatsuTadachika OzonoToramatsu Shintani', 'A linked open data based system utilizing structured open innovation process for addressing collaboratively public concerns in regional societies', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10489-015-0704-8', 'Regional governments are looking for ways to address public concerns more efficiently by utilizing eGovernment systems. The complex environment presents problems for situational awareness and cooperation in public spheres. Current solutions are either lacking in structuring the information or do not support collaboration or discovery. We addressed the problem by developing an open innovation process based web platform for gathering public issues, forming public goals, and for structuring concrete subgoals as goal trees to facilitate participation. We use SOCIA ontology to structure goal information as linked open data. We calculate similarity between a pair of goals by utilizing the tree like structured goal relations. We implemented a negotiation user interface on a video conferencing platform to facilitate interorganizational cooperation and conflict resolution. We are arranging workshops and using the system in various hackathon events to evaluate and analyze the system in real life situations and to gather real life data. We provide the implemented system as a free to use tool.']
['Minjeong KimHan Woo Park', 'Measuring Twitter-based political participation and deliberation in the South Korean context by using social network and Triple Helix indicators', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11192-011-0508-5', 'This study investigates the role of Twitter in political deliberation and participation by analyzing the ways in which South Korean politicians use Twitter. In addition, the study examines the rise of Twitter as user-generated communication system for political participation and deliberation by using the Triple Helix indicators. For this, we considered five prominent politicians, each belonging to one of four political parties, by using data collected in June 2010. The results suggest that non-mainstream, resource-deficient politicians are more likely to take advantage of Twitter\x92s potential as an alternative means of political participation and that a small number of Twitter users lead political discourse in the Twittersphere. We also examined the occurrence and co-occurrence of politicians\x92 names in Twitter posts, and then calculate entropy values for trilateral relationships. The results suggest that the level of political deliberation, expressed in terms of the level of balance in the communication system, is higher when politicians with different political orientations form the trilateral relationships.']
['Engin BozdagJeroen van den Hoven', 'Breaking the filter bubble: democracy and design', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-015-9380-y', 'It has been argued that the Internet and social media increase the number of available viewpoints, perspectives, ideas and opinions available, leading to a very diverse pool of information. However, critics have argued that algorithms used by search engines, social networking platforms and other large online intermediaries actually decrease information diversity by forming so-called \x93filter bubbles\x94. This may form a serious threat to our democracies. In response to this threat others have developed algorithms and digital tools to combat filter bubbles. This paper first provides examples of different software designs that try to break filter bubbles. Secondly, we show how norms required by two democracy models dominate the tools that are developed to fight the filter bubbles, while norms of other models are completely missing in the tools. The paper in conclusion argues that democracy itself is a contested concept and points to a variety of norms. Designers of diversity enhancing tools must thus be exposed to diverse conceptions of democracy.']
['Sean P. GogginsGiuseppe ValettoChristopher MascaroKelly Blincoe', 'Creating a model of the dynamics of socio-technical groups', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11257-012-9122-3', 'Individuals participating in technologically mediated forms of organization often have difficulty recognizing when groups emerge, and how the groups they take part in evolve. This paper contributes an analytical framework that improves awareness of these virtual group dynamics through analysis of electronic trace data from tasks and interactions carried out by individuals in systems not explicitly designed for context adaptivity, user modeling or user personalization. We discuss two distinct cases to which we have applied our analytical framework. These two cases provide a useful contrast of two prevalent ways for analyzing social relations starting from electronic trace data: either artifact-mediated or direct person-to-person interactions. Our case study integrates electronic trace data analysis with analysis of other, triangulating data specific to each application. We show how our techniques fit in a general model of group informatics, which can serve to construct group context, and be leveraged by future tool development aimed at augmenting context adaptivity with group context and a social dimension. We describe our methods, data management strategies and technical architecture to support the analysis of individual user task context, increased awareness of group membership, and an integrated view of social, information and coordination contexts.']
['Diego Levis', 'Educational Networks 2.1', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.7238/rusc.v8i1.965', 'The Redes Educativas 2.1 (Educational Networks 2.1) project attempts to investigate the potential of social media and collaborative environments on the Internet for teaching-learning processes. To that end, we used a Web 2.0 application for social network creation on face-to-face courses and on blended-learning teacher training courses. The application was configured in accordance with the pedagogical needs of every course included in the project. A space restricted to course participants was created, and students of the same subject on several courses and/or years were incorporated, as were the lecturers.']
['Sally WortleyAllison TongEmily LancsarGlenn SalkeldKirsten Howard', 'Public preferences for engagement in Health Technology Assessment decision-making: protocol of a mixed methods study', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/s12911-015-0176-0', 'Much attention in recent years has been given to the topic of public engagement in health technology assessment (HTA) decision-making. HTA organizations spend substantial resources and time on undertaking public engagement, and numerous studies have examined challenges and barriers to engagement in the decision-making process however uncertainty remains as to optimal methods to incorporate the views of the public in HTA decision-making. Little research has been done to ascertain whether current engagement processes align with public preferences and to what extent their desire for engagement is dependent on the question being asked by decision-makers or the characteristics of the decision. This study will examine public preferences for engagement in Australian HTA decision-making using an exploratory mixed methods design.']
['Catherine Easton', 'An examination of the Internet\xe2\x80\x99s development as a disabling environment in the context of the social model of disability and anti-discrimination legislation in the UK and USA', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10209-011-0268-2', 'Research indicates that inaccessible website design persists despite the existence of anti-discrimination legislation and the influence of the social model of disability on policy development. In this paper, the concept of universal access is examined in the light of the social model of disability in relation to both the physical and virtual environments. The manner in which disability is often deemed a design afterthought is highlighted. The need for universal access is then placed alongside a discussion of access to the Internet in relation to an ageing population and people with cognitive difficulties. Subsequently, anti-discrimination provisions are analysed in relation to how they support designers\x92 focus on an accepted normality to which reasonable adjustments need to be made, rather than the acquisition of full universal access.']
['Renate FruchterMarisa Ponti', 'Distributing attention across multiple social worlds', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-009-0251-0', 'Being a member of both local and global teams requires constant distribution and re-distribution of attention, engagement, and intensive communication over synchronous and asynchronous channels with remote and local partners. We explore in this paper the increasing number of social worlds such participants distribute their attention to, how this affects their level of engagement and attention, and how the workspace, collaboration technologies, and interaction modes afford and constrain the communicative events. The use of information and collaboration technologies (ICT) shapes and reshapes work spaces, processes, and social interactions among team members, and team members reshape ICT and the way it is used. We use as a testbed the AEC Global Teamwork course established at Stanford in 1993 in collaboration with universities worldwide and provide examples from two sites\x97Stanford PBL Lab, California USA and Chalmers University, Goteborg Sweden. We used temporal analysis and qualitative methods of inquiry in order to study participants\x92 attention, how they used the site and the means, i.e., their social and material resources, to accomplish their interaction needs, and how they engaged throughout project reviews.']
['Burkhard Schafer', 'Crowdsourcing and cloudsourcing CCTV surveillance', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11623-013-0173-3', 'While the continuing proliferation of CCTV surveillance is a cause for concern, its impact on privacy has in the past been mitigated by certain natural limitations on the way CCTV systems operate in practice. In particular, the increased quantity of surveillance data has not been matched by a similar increase in our ability to process and evaluate it. This paper compares different models of technology enabled analysis of CCTV footage, with a focus on the emerging trend of crowdsourced CCTV analysis: in the world of crowdsourced surveillance, \x93Big Brother is us\x94.']
['V. F. Khoroshevskii', 'Knowledge spaces on the internet and Semantic Web (part 1)', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.3103/S0147688210060079', 'A new line of investigation that integrates studies on artificial intelligence and Internet technologies, which is known as the Semantic Web, is presented. A review of the present state of research is given; problems on the establishment of knowledge spaces on the Internet, the means and methods for the extraction of knowledge from texts in natural languages, as well as questions on the use of knowledge spaces in the creation of applied intelligent systems operating on the Internet, are considered.']
['Jefferson HeardSidharth ThakurJessica LosegoKen Galluppi', 'Big Board: Teleconferencing Over Maps for Shared Situational Awareness', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10606-013-9191-9', 'Collaborative technologies for information sharing are an invaluable resource for emergency managers to respond to and manage highly dynamic events such as natural disasters and other emergencies. However, many standard collaboration tools can be limited either because they provide passive presentation and dissemination of information, or because they are targeted towards highly specific usage scenarios that require considerable training to use the tools. We present a real-time gather and share system called \x93Big Board\x94 which facilitates collaboration over maps. The Big Board is an open-source, web based, real time visual collaborative environment that runs on all modern web browsers and uses open-source web standards developed by the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) and WorldWideWeb Consortium (W3C). An evaluation of Big Board was conducted by school representatives in North Carolina for use in situational understanding for school closure decisions during winter weather events. The decision to close schools has major societal impacts and is one that is usually made based on how well a teenage driver could handle wintry precipitation on a road. Collecting information on the conditions of roads is especially critical, however gathering and sharing of this information within a county can be difficult. Participants in the study found the Big Board intuitive and useful for sharing real time information, such as road conditions and temperatures, leading up to and during a winter storm scenario. We have adapted the Big Board to manage risks and hazards during other types of emergencies such as tropical storm conditions.']
['Nitin AgarwalMerlyna LimRolf Wigand', 'Raising and Rising Voices in Social Media', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12599-012-0210-z', 'Emerging cyber-collective social movements (CSMs) have frequently made headlines in the news. Despite their popularity, there is a lack of systematic methodologies to empirically study such movements in complex online environments. Using the Al-Huwaider online campaign as a case to illustrate our methodology, this contribution attempts to establish a rigorous and fundamental analysis that explains CSMs. We collected 150 blogs from 17 countries ranging between April 2003 and July 2010 with a special focus on Al-Huwaider\x92s campaigns capturing multi-cultural aspects for our analysis. Bearing the analysis upon three central tenets of individual, community, and transnational perspectives, we develop novel algorithms modeling CSMs by utilizing existing collective action theories and computational social network analysis. This article contributes a methodology to study the diffusion of issues in social networks and examines roles of influential community members. The proposed methodology provides a rigorous tool to understand the complexity and dynamics of CSMs. Such methodology also assists us in observing the transcending nature of CSMs with future possibilities for modeling transnational outreach. Our study addresses the lack of fundamental research on the formation of CSMs. This research contributes novel methodologies that can be applied to many settings including business, marketing and many others, beyond the exemplary setting chosen here for illustrative purposes.']
['Francisco A. Oca\xc3\xb1aAna del Moral Garc\xc3\xada', 'A Hyperlink-based Model for the Management of Teaching Documents in a University Centre', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.7238/rusc.v9i2.1332', 'Documents containing teaching information (course guides, curricula, rules, etc.) constitute an essential resource in higher education, particularly for students. Their importance has been stressed over the last few years, on the one hand by the creation of the European Higher Education Area (EHEA), which has re-emphasised the need for sources of teaching information, and on the other by the widespread use of information and communication technologies (ICTs), which provide easy access to such sources. Consequently, the management of such documents is now one of the key procedures that university centres need to apply to the organisation of teaching. With this in mind, the main objective of this article is to present a new centre-level model for the management of teaching documents, implemented via a new software package developed for that purpose: SGD2F2. This new model represents an attempt to overcome the drawbacks that many centres experience when using the current model to manage teaching documents. Although this proposal has been developed for a particular faculty, by making a few alterations it could be adapted for use by any university centre or body responsible for the management of teaching.']
['Amina Jama MahmudEwy OlanderSara Eriks\xc3\xa9nBo JA Haglund', 'Health communication in primary health care -A case study of ICT development for health promotion', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/1472-6947-13-17', 'Developing Information and Communication Technology (ICT) supported health communication in PHC could contribute to increased health literacy and empowerment, which are foundations for enabling people to increase control over their health, as a way to reduce increasing lifestyle related ill health. However, to increase the likelihood of success of implementing ICT supported health communication, it is essential to conduct a detailed analysis of the setting and context prior to the intervention. The aim of this study was to gain a better understanding of health communication for health promotion in PHC with emphasis on the implications for a planned ICT supported interactive health channel.']
['Ronnie CohenJanine S. Hiller', 'What\xe2\x80\x99s mine is mine; what\xe2\x80\x99s yours is mine: private ownership \nof ICTs as a threat to transparency', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-009-9196-8', 'In the face of ubiquitous information communication technology, the presence of blogs, personal websites, and public message boards give the illusion of uncensored criticism and discussion of the ethical implications of business activities. However, little attention has been paid to the limitations on free speech posed by the control of access to the Internet by private entities, enabling them to censor content that is deemed critical of corporate or public policy. The premise of this research is that transparency alone will not achieve the desired results if ICT is used in a one way system, controlled by the provider of information. Stakeholders must have an avenue using the same technology to respond to and interact with the information. We propose a model that imposes on corporations a public trust, requiring these gatekeepers of communication technology to preserve individual rights to criticism and review.']
['Stella C. ChristopoulouJohn L. Papoutsis', 'A content citizen health management system: a tele-health and tele-care prototype portal for the public', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12553-012-0018-3', 'The main inspiration for the implementation of the Content Citizen Health Management System (CCHMS) is to provide a daily, convenient and easily accessible collaborative supportive environment, which will concern social and personal health and welfare matters, to computer literate citizens and those who desire to use information technology. It is a fact that Health services involving prevention and wellness are changing significantly towards a more citizen-centered, home care notion why not also mobile services via WEB and WAP technologies. In other words, the CCHMS as a portal is fundamentally an integration of health content and services in a functional and intelligent WEB environment via the development of communication channels among citizens and the public and private organizations. The design and the development of the CCHMS are based on open source software and follow the appropriate HITSP [1] and ISO/TR 22221 [2] standards along with HONcode principles [3]. In particular, the CCHM system relies on the creation of a customized portal based on the philosophy of the Knowledge Management and Content Management System (CMS). The CMS supports the creation, management, distribution and the publication of corporate information, used to organize and facilitate the collaborative document creation, and other types of content and powerful tools required to create the infrastructure upon which a dynamic website will be set up. The project\x92s objective is to create a modern, inexpensive, widespread tool to support access to a healthy lifestyle, by means of monitoring and consulting citizens on issues of prevention, diagnosis, treatment, shared information and collaborative education. Also, the development of a voluntary professional health network enables citizens to improve personalized health-related management according to national and European policies.']
['Dickson K. W. ChiuDrake T. T. LinEleanna KafezaMinhong WangHaiyang HuHua HuYi Zhuang', 'Alert based disaster notification and resource allocation', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10796-009-9165-0', 'When a disaster occurs, timely actions in response to urgent requests conveyed by critical messages (known as alerts) constitute a vital key to effectiveness. These actions include notifying potentially affected parties so that they can take precautionary measures, gathering additional information, and requesting remedial actions and resource allocation. However, there are different types of disasters such as epidemic outbreaks, natural disasters, major accidents, and terrorist attacks. At the same time, there are also many different parties involved such as governments, healthcare institutions, businesses, and individuals. To address these problems, we introduce a Disaster Notification and Resource Allocation System (DNRAS) based on an Alert Management System (AMS) implemented through Web services. This unified platform supports timely interactions among various parties, focusing on notification and monitoring, resource enquiry and allocation, as well as the mobility of information. We detail the mechanisms of these functions in our system, illustrating the Web services interface parameters for communications and interoperability. We illustrate the applicability of our approach with an example of an epidemic outbreak and discuss the advantage of our approach with respect to various stakeholders of our system.']
['Nelson BaloianGustavo Zurita', 'Achieving better usability of software supporting learning activities of large groups', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10796-015-9580-3', 'Many business schools around the world offer courses to train their students in acquiring so called \x93soft skills\x94, such as working in teams for decision making or sharing information to collaboratively solve complex problems. These courses often include learning activities where students are asked to generate ideas, discuss them, rank them and select the best ones. In order to develop their IT skills, students are often asked to take advantage of available IT technologies for supporting this task. If geographical location information is prominently used to provide context information about the ideas students propose and discuss, this activity can be classified as geo-collaborative. Free software available from the web has often been used to support this kind of work, like Google Maps, for geo-referencing the ideas, the text editor of Google Drive for describing them and Twitter or Facebook to exchange messages and comments. These applications are robust and suitable for use by large groups of students engaged in a situated learning activity. In the context of a learning activity taking place in a business school in Chile, the authors observed students for four semesters collaboratively using these tools to identify ways of improving life or solving problems in certain areas of the city which have to be georeferenced on a map. They had to generate proposals, discuss them and select the ten best. Through feedback provided by students, we identified problems regaring information overload, the lack of support for collaboration and unsatisfactory usability. From these findings we derived requirements for software especially designed to support this learning activity and have a tool that offers better usability. A prototype was developed to cope with these requirements. It was used for two semesters and evaluated under the same conditions when students used free and/or standard software. The experiment yielded positive results and gave us valuable insight on how to implement main features of a system supporting learning activities for large groups that includes decision making, blogging and geo-collaboration.']
['Gian Luca ForestiManuela FarinosiMarco Vernier', 'Situational awareness in smart environments: socio-mobile and sensor data fusion for emergency response to disasters', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12652-014-0227-x', '\n            Traditional situational awareness services in disaster management are mainly focused on the institutional warning response and not fully exploit the active participation of citizens involved. This paper presents an advanced system for emergency management (ASyEM) which fuses the potentiality offered by mobile social data and bottom-up communication with smart sensors. The proposed architecture model is organized into four different layers: (1) sensor, (2) local transmission, (3) network and (4) management. ASyEM is able to capture and aggregate two different kind of data: (a) user generated content produced by citizens during or immediately after the disaster and shared online through socio-mobile applications and (b) data acquired by smart sensors distributed on the environment (i.e., intelligent cameras, microphones, acoustic arrays, etc.). Data are selected, analysed, processed and integrated in order to increase the reliability and the efficiency of whole situational awareness services, localize the critical areas and obtain in this way some relevant information for emergency response and completion of search and rescue operations.']
['Aldo de Moor', 'Reconstructing civil society with intermedia communities', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-009-0262-x', 'A healthy civil society is essential in order to deal with \x93wicked\x94 societal problems. Merely involving institutional actors and mass media is not sufficient. Intermedia can play a crucial complementary role in strengthening civil society. However, the potential of these technologies needs to be carefully tailored to the requirements and constraints of the communities grown around them. The GRASS system for group report authoring is one carefully tailored socio-technical system aimed at unlocking this potential. Such systems may help to develop stakeholder communities that are more productive in societal conflict resolution.']
['Marko KomssiMarjo KauppinenHarri T\xc3\xb6h\xc3\xb6nenLaura LehtolaAlan M. Davis', 'Roadmapping problems in practice: value creation from the perspective of the customers', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00766-013-0186-3', 'Roadmapping has been recognized as a critical activity for adding business value to a software product. The marketing literature has placed increasing emphasis on customer value and that value is created in customers\x92 everyday activities. This paper presents an action research study on the roadmapping problems of two software product companies. The key findings were that customer knowledge was fragmented across different functions of the companies and that roadmapping neglected service development. To solve these problems, the analysis of customer value and customers\x92 processes was integrated into roadmapping. Facilitated workshops with cross-functional teams were used to analyze the customers\x92 processes in their entirety and to create a holistic view to roadmapping. The lessons learned offer practical means for software companies to shift their focus from the prioritization of software features to the analysis of customers\x92 processes and the prioritization of customers\x92 activities. That shift can promote value for customers and uncover new service business opportunities. Accordingly, this paper provides a six-step approach to adopt the value-creation logic from the customers\x92 perspective into the existing roadmapping process of a company.']
['Maurice Berix', 'YUTPA as a design tool for public participation', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-011-0329-3', 'Engaging the public in decision-making processes is commonly accepted as an effective strategy for a better policy making, a better policy support and for narrowing the gap between government and the public. In today\x92s digitised society, participation via online media is becoming more important. But is this so-called e-participation being used optimally? Or is a better design possible? In my opinion, the answer to these questions is a \x91yes\x92. Despite numerous efforts in engaging the public with policy deliberation, the actual amount of participants remains low. In this article, I have used the YUTPA model (Nevejan 2009) to analyse some existing e-participation projects. Additionally, I derived ten characteristics of \x91play\x92 to make proposals for a more designerly e-participation approach.']
['David J. SchaeferBrenda Dervin', 'From the dialogic to the contemplative: a conceptual \nand empirical rethinking of online communication \noutcomes as verbing micro-practices', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-009-9206-x', 'Traditional approaches to studying communication in public spheres draw upon a product or outcome orientation that has prevented researchers from theorizing more specifically about how communication behaviors either inhibit or facilitate dialogic processes. Additionally, researchers typically emphasize consensus as a preferred outcome. Drawing upon a methodology explicitly developed to study communicating using a verb-oriented framework, we analyzed 1,360 postings from online pedagogical discussions. Our analysis focused on verbing micro-practices, the dynamic communicative actions through which participants make and unmake public spheres. Two questions guided our analysis: (1) How do grounded communicative micro-moment practices relate to consensusing and dissensusing within public spheres? and (2) What are the theoretical implications of these relationships for the quality of dialogue among participants who are discussing controversial topics? Our findings indicate that, contrary to recent theorizing, consensus-building and maintaining behaviors may actually inhibit the communicative processes necessary for the creation of effective public sphere dialogue.']
['Sarah PollackYifat Ben-David Kolikant', 'Collaboration amidst disagreement and moral judgment: The dynamics of Jewish and Arab students\xe2\x80\x99 collaborative inquiry of their joint past', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11412-011-9138-4', 'We present an instructional model involving a computer-supported collaborative learning environment, in which students from two conflicting groups collaboratively investigate an event relevant to their past using historical texts. We traced one enactment of the model by a group comprised of two Israeli Jewish and two Israeli Arab students. Our data sources included the texts participants wrote\x97pre-, post- and during the activity, jointly and individually\x97the transcripts of the e-discussion and reflections written after the activity. The setting enabled us to further our understanding of what collaboration means when students\x92 voices do not converge. We examined whether the activity was productive in terms of learning, and the dynamics of collaboration within the milieu, especially the intersubjective meaning making. The e-discussion that was co-constructed by participants was a chain of disagreements. However, participants\x92 reflections reveal that the group structure and the e-communication method were perceived as affording sensitive collaboration. Furthermore, a comparison between the individual texts, pre- and post- the group discussion, revealed that the activity was productive, since students moved from a one-sided presentation of the event to a more multi-sided representation. Based on the analysis of the e-discussion, we conclude that the setting provided students with opportunities to examine their voices in light of alternatives. We propose the term fission to articulate certain moments of intersubjectivity, where a crack is formed in one\x92s voice as the Other\x92s voice impacts it, and one\x92s voice become more polyphonic.']
['Priyanka RawatKamal Deep SinghHakima ChaouchiJean Marie Bonnin', 'Wireless sensor networks: a survey on recent developments and potential synergies', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11227-013-1021-9', 'Wireless sensor network (WSN) has emerged as one of the most promising technologies for the future. This has been enabled by advances in technology and availability of small, inexpensive, and smart sensors resulting in cost effective and easily deployable WSNs. However, researchers must address a variety of challenges to facilitate the widespread deployment of WSN technology in real-world domains. In this survey, we give an overview of wireless sensor networks and their application domains including the challenges that should be addressed in order to push the technology further. Then we review the recent technologies and testbeds for WSNs. Finally, we identify several open research issues that need to be investigated in future.']
['Sujit BhattacharyaArshia KaulShilpaPraveen Sharma', 'Role of bilateral institution in influencing collaboration: case study of CEFIPRA\xe2\x80\x94a bilateral S&T institution established by India and France', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11192-014-1454-9', '\n            International collaboration has become a strategic policy initiative for building scientific competency in different countries. This is driven by increasing realisation that no country possess all the wherewithal to address complexities of scientific research, dedicate huge funding, and confront global challenges. Varied institutional mechanisms have been created by different countries for strategising international collaboration such as signing bilateral agreements, initiating dedicated programs with partner countries in different S&T areas. Some countries have further deepened their relationship by creating bilateral S&T organisations/specialised centres. The role of bilateral organisation in strengthening inter-country research and innovation partnership is not explicitly underscored in collaboration studies. The present study addresses this issue by taking up the case study of a bilateral organisation IFCPAR/CEFIPRA (Indo-French Centre for Promotion of Advanced Research/Centre Franco-Indien pour la Promotion de la Recherche Avanc\xe9e) which was established by India and France in 1987 to support their science and technology partnership. Through this case study the paper draws insight of inter-country collaboration in S&T and show how its dynamics and structural aspects are affected by a bilateral organisation.']
['Michael Hammond', 'A Habermasian perspective on joint meaning making\xc2\xa0online: What does it offer and what are the difficulties?', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11412-015-9215-1', 'This paper is an exploration of the relevance of Habermas\x92s social theory for understanding meaning making in the context of shared online interaction. It describes some of the key ideas within Habermas\x92s work, noting the central importance it gives to the idea of communicative action - a special kind of discourse in which there is \x91no other force than that of the better argument\x92 and no other motive other than \x91the cooperative search for truth\x92. The paper then turns to the referencing of Habermas by educationalists in general and by supporters of online discussion in particular. It argues that a Habermasian perspective on meaning making is one in which participants strive for \x91genuine consensus\x92 by interrogating their own beliefs while actively engaging with opposing points of view. The value of this approach is that it introduces a concern for validity or truth into discussion of knowledge building and discriminates between emancipatory and strategic goals. While critics would argue that genuine consensus is not achievable, from Habermas we can better understand the importance of striving for such consensus.']
['\xc3\x85sa Reven\xc3\xa4sChristina H OpavaPernilla \xc3\x85senl\xc3\xb6f', 'Lead users\xe2\x80\x99 ideas on core features to support physical activity in rheumatoid arthritis: a first step in the development of an internet service using participatory design', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/1472-6947-14-21', 'Despite the growing evidence of the benefits of physical activity (PA) in individuals with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), the majority is not physically active enough. An innovative strategy is to engage lead users in the development of PA interventions provided over the internet. The aim was to explore lead users\x92 ideas and prioritization of core features in a future internet service targeting adoption and maintenance of healthy PA in people with RA.']
['Teemu Lepp\xc3\xa4nenJos\xc3\xa9 \xc3\x81lvarez LacasiaYoshito TobeKaoru SezakiJukka Riekki', 'Mobile crowdsensing with mobile agents', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10458-015-9311-7', 'We introduce mobile agents for mobile crowdsensing. Crowdsensing campaigns are designed through different roles that are implemented as mobile agents. The role-based tasks of mobile agents include collecting data, analyzing data and sharing data in the campaign. Mobile agents execute and control the campaign autonomously as a multi-agent system and migrate in the opportunistic network of participants\x92 devices. Mobile agents take into account the available resources in the devices and match participants\x92 privacy requirements to the campaign requirements. Sharing of task results in real-time facilitates cooperation towards the campaign goal while maintaining a selected global measure, such as energy efficiency. We discuss current challenges in crowdsensing and propose mobile agent based solutions for campaign execution and monitoring, addressing data collection and participant-related issues. We present a software framework for mobile agents-based crowdsensing that is seamlessly integrated into the Web. A set of simulations are conducted to compare mobile agent-based campaigns with existing crowdsensing approaches. We implemented and evaluated a small-scale real-world mobile agent based campaign for pedestrian flock detection. The simulation and evaluation results show that mobile agent based campaigns produce comparable results with less energy consumption when the number of agents is relatively small and enables in-network data processing with sharing of data and task results with insignificant overhead.']
['Mark BilandzicMarcus Foth', 'Learning beyond books\xe2\x80\x94strategies for ambient media to improve libraries and collaboration spaces as interfaces for social learning', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11042-013-1432-x', 'With the advent of digital media and online information resources, public libraries as physical destinations for information access are being increasingly challenged. As a response, many libraries follow the trend of removing bookshelves in order to provide more floorspace for social interaction and collaboration. Such spaces follow a Commons 2.0 model: they are designed to support collaborative work and social learning. The acquisition of skills and knowledge is facilitated as a result of being surrounded by and interacting with a community of likeminded others. Based on the results of a case study on a Commons 2.0 library space, this paper describes several issues of collaboration and social learning in public library settings. Acknowledging the significance of the architectural characteristics of the physical space, we discuss opportunities for ambient media to better reflect the social attributes of the library as a place; i.e. amplify the sense of other co-present library visitors and provide opportunities for shared encounters and conversations, which would remain invisible otherwise. We present the design of a user check-in system for improving the library as a physical destination for social learning, sharing, and inspiration for and by the community.']
['Andy Williamson', 'Using mixed methods to discover emergent patterns of local eDemocracy', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-009-0258-6', 'Research in an emergent field requires the researcher to consider appropriate methodologies. This paper describes research that attempts to discover how new technologies can influence local democratic engagement. It describes an interpretive research project informed by critical social theory that uses an explanatory mixed methods approach, combining two sequential data collection methods. The study incorporates a survey instrument and qualitative interviewing, analysed using Grounded Theory Methodology. The paper will describe the context for the research, the choice of a mixed methods approach and relate this to an epistemology and ontology. The paper does not discuss the research findings but focuses on the research process and methodology and provides reflection on the outcomes and the challenges of the chosen approach. It demonstrates that mixed methods research is appropriate in a narrow and emergent field of study and that it offers methodological flexibility whilst promoting rigour and grounded results.']
['Alex H. Poole', 'How has your science data grown? Digital curation and the human factor: a critical literature review', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10502-014-9236-y', 'Focusing on North America and the United Kingdom, this critical literature review underscores the ways in which sharing, accessing, and reusing science data allow researchers and other stakeholders to address new imperatives in scientific research. Science data stakeholders should harness the principles and practices of digital curation, an overarching concept that encompasses data curation and that centers on adding value to digital data assets. This review first probes data sharing, access, and reuse in specific intellectual and institutional contexts. Next, it examines the ways in which science data sharing, access, and reuse benefits scholarship, primarily by encouraging new research questions and by\xa0allowing the reproduction of previous findings. Third, it addresses the infrastructure of science data curation, particularly the roles of cyberinfrastructure, research communities, collaboration, planning, policy, and standards and best practices. Fourth, it turns to the role of institutions\x97archives, research libraries, institutional repositories, and centers\x97in curating science data. Archival principles such as provenance, selection and appraisal, authenticity, metadata, risk management, and trust play a pivotal role\xa0in digital curation. Finally, it delineates avenues for further research such as sustainability, costing, planning and policy, training and education, researcher practices, and raising awareness.']
['Seong Eun ChoHan Woo Park', 'Government organizations\xe2\x80\x99 innovative use of the Internet: The case of the Twitter activity of South Korea\xe2\x80\x99s Ministry for Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11192-011-0519-2', 'Noting the government\x92s role in diffusing information across various sectors of society, this study analyzes the Twitter activity of the Ministry for Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MFAFF), one of Korea\x92s government organizations. From a broad perspective, this study provides a better understanding of innovation activity mediated by social media\x97particularly the government\x92s Twitter activity, a topic that has not been addressed by previous webometric research on Triple Helix relationships\x97by employing social network analysis and content analysis. The results indicate some limitations of the MFAFF\x92s activity on Twitter as a mutual communication channel, although Twitter has the potential to facilitate risk management. Further, based on the MFAFF\x92s confined use of its Twitter account, the results suggest that its Twitter account can be an effective information distribution channel, indicating Twitter\x92s value as a communication tool for innovation activity through social media. This study provides an empirical analysis of the government\x92s Twitter activity and contributes to the literature by providing an in-depth understanding of the Triple Helix relationship on the Web.']
['Sasha A. Reese', 'Online learning environments in higher education: Connectivism vs. dissociation', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10639-013-9303-7', 'Over the last decade online education has emerged as a way for students and faculty to collaborate more freely, attain greater flexibility, and utilize new media to learn. The burning debate lies in whether online educational options are harmful to traditional education or offer endless benefits necessary to accommodate a 21st century learner. Supporters of virtual learning environments suggest that 21st century learners require the construction and creation capabilities offered through Web 2.0 to succeed while critics suggest that asynchronous interactions are not engaging and rigorous enough for higher education. A balanced online environment should provide a blend of both asynchronous and synchronous opportunities, which promote communication and collaboration among classmates and instructors.']
['Luis KunK. HiroseB. KatsumiM. AlbinK. PrendergastM. Mendoza', 'The impact of Fukushima on global health: lessons learned from man-made and natural disasters', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12553-014-0090-y', 'On July 5, 2013 a special invited session entitled: \x93The Impact of Fukushima on Global Health\x97Lessons Learned from Man-Made and Natural Disasters\x94 was held at the Osaka Convention Center in Osaka, Japan, during the 35th Annual International Conference of the IEEE\x97Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society. The purpose of that session was mainly to discuss what happened at Fukushima, its repercussions and what other countries particularly those in South, Central and North America, can do to be better prepared for similar events. The first three authors of this paper participated in that special session. This article examines the causes and consequences of the nuclear accident that took place March 11, 2011, at the Fukushima Dai-ichi plant in Fukushima, Japan. It explains the different security risks associated with nuclear energy and analyzes the natural, man-made and technical causes of the Fukushima disaster. While nature was the main instigator, poor design, relaxed safety standards and lack of training severely exacerbated the damage and prolonged the effects of the incident. Crisis management strategies from the incident showed how cloud computing can be useful and effective in emergency response situations. However, the article\x92s authors warn of potential failures due to infrastructure interdependencies and of the need to build resilient systems. The ongoing crisis in Fukushima serves as a testament to the different security risks associated with nuclear power and the serious, long lasting consequences they can have on critical infrastructures, the environment, public health, commerce and society\x97not just in Fukushima but anywhere in the world. In examining nuclear power as a viable energy resource, this article uses the Fukushima accident to encourage international discussion regarding the benefits and risks of nuclear power, the definition of government and utility company\x92s roles and responsibilities to the public, and the possibility of pursuing alternative energy sources. Finally, through an analysis of these risks and the lessons learned from Fukushima, this article will present policy recommendations regarding better risk analysis, plant construction, secure practices, restoration of critical infrastructures and other elements of disaster response in order to create safer, more responsible nuclear energy policies worldwide.']
['Ren\xc3\xa9 Victor Valqui Vidal', 'Rural development within the EU LEADER+ programme: new tools and technologies', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-007-0178-2', 'This paper reports on the LEADER+ programme and on the work carried out supporting rural communities in EU countries under the LEADER+ programme. This is a programme that supports development in particularly vulnerable rural regions of the European countries that are members of the EU. It supports creative and innovative projects that can contribute to long-term and sustainable development in these regions. In this paper, we will focus on three specific areas: networking, facilitation of groups, and information and communication technologies. Some case studies are shortly described.']
['Robson de Oliveira AlbuquerqueLuis Javier Garc\xc3\xada VillalbaAna Lucila Sandoval OrozcoRafael Tim\xc3\xb3teo de Sousa J\xc3\xbaniorTai-Hoon Kim', 'Leveraging information security and computational trust for cybersecurity', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11227-015-1543-4', 'Cybersecurity has an enormous impact in modern society, since almost everything in our day-to-day activities depends on some information and communication technology that is prone to some form of threat. This paper argues that cybersecurity depends on the combined effect of information security measures together with explicit trust verification that these measures are operational and effective. In this sense, this paper provides a view of information treatments related to trust and information security and discusses how together they can counter advanced persistent threats and exploits that now plague the cyberspace.']
['Seshadri MohanNitin AgarwalLava Al-Doski', 'Mobile network-aware social computing applications: a framework, architecture, and analysis', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12652-011-0066-y', 'Advanced socio-technical systems especially handheld and mobile devices are no longer esoteric; rather they are a part of daily life for billions of people worldwide endowing a sense of every time connectedness that helps in realizing the ideology behind social computing applications (such as, Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, YouTube, SecondLife, etc.), i.e., sharing whatever-whenever. With larger bandwidths (3G/4G/WiMax capabilities), powerful processing capabilities, better displays, and user friendly and even haptic interfaces, mobile platforms have shown a promising future for social computing applications. However, advances in web technologies (such as HTML5, AJAX, etc.) have led to the development of complex set of applications with rich user-interfaces that demands a nimble and robust architecture for social computing applications that is adaptive to the network constraints and bottleneck issues. This has resulted in a favorable playground for mobile-aware social computing applications offering practitioners and researchers key architectural challenges with numerous fledgling opportunities. In this article, we elaborate upon the challenges and provide a framework for incorporating cross-layer interaction between social network applications and wireless network capabilities. Specifically, we address the problem of delivering social network content to mobile devices with the required QoS. We propose a generic framework that addresses this issue. We also discuss some suitable wireless network protocols that could be utilized to provide QoS for the delivery of content generated by social computing applications and for reliable interactions between mobile users and social computing applications followed by possible future research directions.']
['Antonio J. JaraPablo LopezDavid FernandezJose F. CastilloMiguel A. ZamoraAntonio F. Skarmeta', 'Mobile digcovery: discovering and interacting with the world through the Internet of things', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00779-013-0648-0', 'The application of Internet-enabled devices in the real world for the development of Smart Cities, environmental monitoring, bus tracking, and parking requires scalability, extensibility, and integration of emerging resources to reach a suitable ecosystem for data acquisition and interaction with citizens. Internet of things needs to offer efficient support for global communications and access to services and information. It needs to enable homogeneous and seamless machine-to-machine communication for different solutions and applications. This work presents an homogeneous and suitable mechanism for global resource discovery, device access for deployed smart objects in different scenarios, and sensors and devices from end users (participative sensing). The integration of legacy and sensors already available from smart buildings and smart objects is presented. For this purpose, a resolution infrastructure called \x93digcovery\x94 is defined for maximizing efficiency and sustainability of deployments. Digcovery architecture offers the framework to allow users to register/include their own sensors into a common infrastructure and access/discover the available resources through mobile digcovery. Mobile digcovery exploits the context-awareness, geo-location, and identification technologies available in mobile platforms such as smartphones to discover, interact, and access the resources through its ElasticSearch engine.']
['Torsten NoackHerbert Kubicek', 'The introduction of online authentication as part of the new electronic national identity card in Germany', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12394-010-0051-1', 'This chapter provides an analysis of the long process of introducing an electronic identity for online authentication in Germany. This process is described as a multi-facet innovation, involving actors from different policy fields shifting over time. The eID process started in the late \x9190s in the context of eGovernment and eCommerce with the legislation on e-signatures, which were supposed to allow for online authentication of citizens. When after 5\xa0years it was recognized that this was not the case, a new digital ID card, which had meanwhile been announced, was chosen as token for the eID. This process was dominated by the concerns for visual inspection and border control, including the storage of digital fingerprints. Under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior (BMI) and technical guidance of the Federal Agency for Information Security (BSI), technical specifications have to a large extent been adopted from the electronic passport, which had been smoothly introduced 2\xa0years before. However, in the legislative process some concern regarding digital fingerprints on the eID card was raised and led to an opt-in solution. In 2009, a bill on the new ID card was passed which regulates the eID function for online authentication as well. This is characterized as a radical innovation by introducing a double-sided, mutual authentication of the citizen and the service provider and implementing the principle of proportionality regarding the access of service providers to data on the chip. At the time of writing, field tests are conducted. Roll-out of the new eID card is to start in November 2010. Therefore no figures about adoption can be provided here.']
['Matthew A. DunlapAnthony Hoi Tin TangSaul Greenberg', 'Applying geocaching principles to site-based citizen science and eliciting reactions via a technology probe', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00779-015-0837-0', ' Site-based citizen science occurs when volunteers work with scientists to collect data at particular field locations. The benefit is greater data collection at lesser cost. Yet difficulties exist. We developed ScienceCaching, a prototype citizen science aid designed to mitigate four specific problems by applying aspects from another thriving location-based activity: geocaching as enabled by mobile devices. Specifically, to ease problems in data collection, ScienceCaching treats sites as geocaches: Volunteers find sites opportunistically via geocaching methods and use equipment and other materials pre-stored in cache containers. To ease problems in data validation, ScienceCaching flags outlier data as it is entered so that on-site volunteers can be immediately check and correct data. Additionally, other volunteers are directed to that site at a later time for further readings that provide data redundancy. To ease volunteer training, ScienceCaching directs volunteers to training sites on an as-needed basis, where they are taught and tested against known measures. To ease volunteer coordination, ScienceCaching automatically directs volunteers to particular sites of interest, and real-time communication between volunteers and scientist is enabled as needed. We developed ScienceCaching primarily as a technology probe\x97a working but quite limited system\x97to embody these ideas and to evaluate their worthiness by eliciting reactions from scientists involved in citizen science. Scientists saw many opportunities in using fixed location caches and geocaching techniques to aid citizen science. Yet they expanded the discussion. Amongst these, they emphasized practical concerns that must be addressed, and they argued that future systems should carefully consider the role of the social experience\x97both the \x93online\x94 experience and the shared physical experience of visiting sites.']
['Haluk DemirkanMichael Goul', 'Taking value-networks to the cloud services: security services, semantics and service level agreements', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10257-011-0186-0', 'Cloud services have become an emerging solution for organizations striving to address today\x92s need for agility, but little research has addressed transitioning multiple, collaborating organizations to what can be referred to as a \x93value-network cloud.\x94 We know that organizations adopting cloud services to execute business processes must concomitantly reconfigure their security solutions for their integrated intra- and inter-organizational collaborations. We address the question, \x93What is needed to make it possible for an entire value-network to take secure, collaborative business process executions to the cloud?\x94 Future value-network cloud solutions will require completely new security approaches that will leverage contracted brokering solutions operating as part of the cloud solution. We view value-network cloud security service provisioning as a bundle decision characterized by a mix of communication patterns relevant to intra- and inter-enterprise collaboration. We propose a cloud service broker model\x97using semantics and SLA based middleware\x97to serve as a trusted interface between the enterprise, cloud service providers and other organizations collaborating in a value-network. The approach enables IT governance for value-network cloud services. The architectural requirements adapt design principles for infrastructure management tailored from approaches to how business cartels historically conducted secure business dealings.']
['Caroline NevejanFrances Brazier', 'Granularity in reciprocity', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-011-0332-8', 'Witnessing in merging biological, social and algorithmic realities is crucial to trust, as modelled in the YUTPA framework. Being witness and bearing witness is fundamental to human interaction. System participation in human communities of practice challenges the notion of witnessing and therefore the ability to build trust. Nevertheless, through trial and error, people in a variety of practices have found ways to establish the presence and develop trust in merging realities. This paper presents the results of 20 in-depth interviews with professionals from a variety of disciplines and nations. The conclusion of cumulative analysis is that systems do not witness themselves, but their output deeply affects the mental maps that human beings make of each other, the world around them and their own self. Essential qualities human beings seek when being involved with other beings are defined by granularity and reciprocity in the design of time (duration of engagement, synchronizing performance, integrating rhythms and moments to signify), place (body sense, material interaction, emotional space and situated agency), relation (shared meaning, engagement, reputation and use) and action (tuning, reciprocity, negotiation and quality of deeds). By designing granular interaction in 4 dimensions, reciprocity in witnessing obtains significance and the basis for establishing trust in a variety of presences emerges while human agency acquires potential.']
['Eiman Al NuaimiHind Al NeyadiNader MohamedJameela Al-Jaroodi', 'Applications of big data to smart cities', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/s13174-015-0041-5', 'Many governments are considering adopting the smart city concept in their cities and implementing big data applications that support smart city components to reach the required level of sustainability and improve the living standards. Smart cities utilize multiple technologies to improve the performance of health, transportation, energy, education, and water services leading to higher levels of comfort of their citizens. This involves reducing costs and resource consumption in addition to more effectively and actively engaging with their citizens. One of the recent technologies that has a huge potential to enhance smart city services is big data analytics. As digitization has become an integral part of everyday life, data collection has resulted in the accumulation of huge amounts of data that can be used in various beneficial application domains. Effective analysis and utilization of big data is a key factor for success in many business and service domains, including the smart city domain. This paper reviews the applications of big data to support smart cities. It discusses and compares different definitions of the smart city and big data and explores the opportunities, challenges and benefits of incorporating big data applications for smart cities. In addition it attempts to identify the requirements that support the implementation of big data applications for smart city services. The review reveals that several opportunities are available for utilizing big data in smart cities; however, there are still many issues and challenges to be addressed to achieve better utilization of this technology.']
['Sanja DogramadziMaria Elena GiannacciniChristopher HarperMohammad SobhaniRoger WoodmanJiyeon Choung', 'Environmental Hazard Analysis - a Variant of Preliminary Hazard Analysis for Autonomous Mobile Robots', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10846-013-0020-7', 'Robot manufacturers will be required to demonstrate objectively that all reasonably foreseeable hazards have been identified in any robotic product design that is to be marketed commercially. This is problematic for autonomous mobile robots because conventional methods, which have been developed for automatic systems do not assist safety analysts in identifying non-mission interactions with environmental features that are not directly associated with the robot\x92s design mission, and which may comprise the majority of the required tasks of autonomous robots. In this paper we develop a new variant of preliminary hazard analysis that is explicitly aimed at identifying non-mission interactions by means of new sets of guidewords not normally found in existing variants. We develop the required features of the method and describe its application to several small trials conducted at Bristol Robotics Laboratory in the 2011\x962012 period.']
['Cristina GenaFederica CenaFabiana VerneroPierluigi Grillo', 'The evaluation of a social adaptive website for cultural events', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11257-012-9129-9', 'In this paper, we present an evaluation of a social adaptive website in the domain of cultural events, iCITY DSA, which provides information about cultural resources and events that promote the cultural heritage in the city of Turin. Using this evaluation, our objective was to investigate the actual usage of a social adaptive website, in an effort to discover the real behavior of users, the unforeseen correlations among user actions and the consequent interactive behavior, the accuracy of both system and social recommendations and their impact on the users themselves, and the role of tagging in the user modeling process. The major contributions of the paper are manifold: insights into user interactions with social adaptive systems; guidelines for future designs; evaluation of the tagging activity and tag meanings in relation to the application domain and thus their impact on the representation of the user model; and a demonstration of how a combination and interplay of evaluation methodologies (e.g., quantitative and qualitative) can enhance our comprehension of evaluation data.']
['Antonino VaccaroPeter Madsen', 'Corporate dynamic transparency: the new ICT-driven ethics?', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-009-9190-1', 'The term \x93corporate transparency\x94 is frequently used in scholarly discussions of business ethics and corporate social responsibility (CSR); however, it remains a volatile and imprecise term, often defined incompletely as \x93information disclosure\x94 accomplished through standardized reporting. Based on the results of empirical studies of organizational behaviors, this paper identifies a new set of managerial practices based on the use of information and communication technologies (ICT) and particularly Internet-based tools. These practices are resulting in what can be termed \x93dynamic transparency.\x94 ICT allows for an informational environment characterized by two-way exchange between corporations and their stakeholders, which fosters a more collaborative marketplace. It is proposed that such dynamic information sharing, conducted by means of ICT, drives organizations to display greater openness and accountability, and more transparent operations, which benefit both the corporations and their constituents. One of the most important outcomes that will accrue to consumers and other individuals is the \x93right to know,\x94 especially about corporate strategies and activities that might directly affect their quality of life. This paper demonstrates that dynamic transparency is more desirable and more effective than the more common \x93static transparency\x94 where firms\x92 information disclosure is one-way, usually in response to government regulation. We present three ethical arguments to justify the implementation by business firms of dynamic transparency and demonstrate that their doing so is related to CSR and to augment and complement stakeholder engagement and dialogue. The paper concludes with a summary of the possible limits to and the problems involved in the implementation of dynamic transparency for corporations, and suggests some strategies to counter them.']
['Nicola YellandGreg Neal', 'Aligning digital and social inclusion: A study of disadvantaged students and computer access', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10639-012-9223-y', 'In this paper we discuss the notion of the digital divide and link it with recent policy designed to promote social inclusion in a project that addressed both issues. Families in low socio economic areas of Australia were given computers and Internet access as part of a project that had as its primary aim to support the participation of disadvantaged families in digital activities at home and in schools. The authors collected data over a period of 3\xa0years that included, pre and post surveys with parents and students, interviews with program facilitators, and focus groups with parents. This paper focuses on selected themes that emerged from the interview and focus group data with the parents and explores the ways in which they perceived having the computer had impacted on their lives and those of their school aged children. This data (surveys, interviews and focus groups) reveals that all family members felt that the ownership of a computer enabled them to feel more confident about their active participation in everyday educational, social and community activities. Parents, teachers and students also reported that owning a computer was important to their lives yet they were not na\xefve to the fact that they still had a lot to learn in terms of using all the options available to them on the computer. Students noted the increased ease with which they could complete school work and communicate with friends in online contexts and outlined some of the ways in which they used the computer for leisure activities. Parents highlighted the increase in their own digital skill levels and described the ways in which their lives had benefitted from having a computer in the home. Problems associated with connectivity at the beginning of the project, the quality of the machines and inadequate initial training were listed as drawbacks to greater participation. The project represents one attempt to address the digital divide and illustrates how going beyond the dichotomy of a \x91haves\x92 v \x91have nots\x92 view of the digital divide is necessary if we want to promote social inclusion.']
['Cristina Y\xc3\xa1\xc3\xb1ezAlexandra OkadaRamon Palau', 'New learning scenarios for the 21st century related to Education, Culture and Technology', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.7238/rusc.v12i2.2454', 'This paper presents a summary of proposals and new learning scenarios for the 21st century related to the theme of \x93Education, Culture and Technology\x94. These proposals and scenarios are based on the work conducted in 2014 by a group of experts from Andorra, Catalonia, the United States and the United Kingdom during the International Forum on Education and Technology (FIET) held in Tarragona, Spain. The main aim of this work is to analyze the interconnection between education and culture through the discussion and selection of best practices and to identify the role played by technology in this process. The methodology used in this qualitative research was the focus group, whereby a group of experts analyzed and selected a range of good practices related to the main issue. The results of this process were shared at two plenary sessions with 100 expert reviewers and 500 educators. After considering the challenges faced by education in the 21st century and the best practices selected by the experts, it was agreed that digital technology can promote the dialogue that is needed to create a culture of innovation and enhance new ways of learning, participating, and contributing to local and global culture. At the end of this paper we make several proposals and recommendations for constructing learning environments that integrate education, culture and technology for a transformative experience.']
['Jung-Hyun KimHyeong-Joon KwonKwang-Seok Hong', 'Location awareness-based intelligent multi-agent technology', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00530-010-0194-9', 'In this paper, we propose an advanced location awareness-based intelligent multi-agent technology that allows multiple users to share various user-centric mobile multimedia contents. This paper mainly focuses on (1) mobile station-based mixed-web map module via mobile mash-up technology, (2) a new location-based mobile multimedia technology using ubiquitous sensor Net.-based five senses content, and (3) location awareness-based intelligent multi-agent technology that includes a location-based integrated retrieval agent, a mobile social network (MSN)-based multi-user detection agent and user-centric automatic mobile multimedia recommender agent. This paper aims at validating and inspecting the usability, suitability, and applicability of the suggested technology via various performance evaluation experiments.']
['Ze-min Jiang \xe6\xb1\x9f\xe6\xb3\xbd\xe6\xb0\x91', 'Development of IT industry in China in the new age', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12204-009-0001-y', 'The article explains the role and future trend of IT industry, and states that information technology represented by the Internet and computers has brought about the third industrial revolution in history. An important impetus for economic growth in modern times, the IT industry has greatly promoted sustainable development and is profoundly changing mankind\x92s way of life and production. In discussing the development trend of world IT industry, the article suggests that with potential new breakthroughs in information technology, the trend of agglomeration and integration of industries has become increasingly obvious, competition of intellectual properties and standards is intensifying and ubiquitous network is taking shape. It points out that China should bring into better play the role of IT industry as an \x93amplifier\x94 in economic growth, a \x93transformer\x94 in development mode and a \x93propeller\x94 in industrial upgrading. It is important to follow a policy that emphasizes independent innovation, market-driven approach, open and compatible technologies, integrated and comprehensive applications, and serving both military and civil purposes, so that a quantum leap of IT industry will be achieved. China should advance industrialization with information technologies and promote the IT industry in the course of industrialization in an effort to build an IT industry with Chinese characteristics. Greater efforts should be made to develop such core sectors as microelectronics, computer, software, key components and materials, as well as sectors with international competitiveness, including broadband mobile communication, next-generation network and information services. Continued improvement should be made in policies guiding the development of IT industry with a view to making China a country with a strong IT industry by 2020.']
['Michael D ConoverBruno Gon\xc3\xa7alvesAlessandro FlamminiFilippo Menczer', 'Partisan asymmetries in online political activity', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1140/epjds6', 'We examine partisan differences in the behavior, communication patterns and social interactions of more than 18,000 politically-active Twitter users to produce evidence that points to changing levels of partisan engagement with the American online political landscape. Analysis of a network defined by the communication activity of these users in proximity to the 2010 midterm congressional elections reveals a highly segregated, well clustered, partisan community structure. Using cluster membership as a high-fidelity (87% accuracy) proxy for political affiliation, we characterize a wide range of differences in the behavior, communication and social connectivity of left- and right-leaning Twitter users. We find that in contrast to the online political dynamics of the 2008 campaign, right-leaning Twitter users exhibit greater levels of political activity, a more tightly interconnected social structure, and a communication network topology that facilitates the rapid and broad dissemination of political information.']
['Moumita DasJack CP ChengSrinath S Kumar', 'Social BIMCloud: a distributed cloud-based BIM platform for object-based lifecycle information exchange', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/s40327-015-0022-6', 'The architecture, engineering and construction (AEC) industry lacks a framework for capturing, managing, and exchanging project, product, and social information over the lifecycle of a building. The current tools have various limitations, such as lack of interoperability, slow to transfer huge building model files, and possibility of data inconsistency.']
['Brian O\xe2\x80\x99Neill', 'Who cares? Practical ethics and the problem of underage users on social networking sites', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10676-013-9331-4', 'Internet companies place a high priority on the safety of their services and on their corporate\xa0social responsibility towards protection of all users, especially younger ones. However, such efforts are undermined by the large numbers of children who circumvent age restrictions and lie about their age to gain access to such platforms. This paper deals with the ethical issues that arise in this not-so-hypothetical situation. Who, for instance, bears responsibility for children\x92s welfare in this context? Are parents/carers ethically culpable in failing to be sufficiently vigilant or even facilitating their children\x92s social media use? Do industry providers do enough to enforce their own regulations and remove those users they know to be underage? How far does a duty of care extend? Regulation of age restrictions has, it is argued, created unintended consequences that heighten online dangers for young people. While children are inevitably drawn to new online spaces for entertainment and fun, should their rights to participate in the social world around them be curtailed to ensure their best interests and those of the wider community? Such questions now pose significant practical and ethical dilemmas for policy makers and other stakeholders involved in internet governance. It especially highlights the question of responsibility for protection of minors online and calls into question whether the current model of shared responsibility is working.']
['Sergio S\xc3\xa1nchez Garc\xc3\xadaAna G\xc3\xb3mez OlivaEmilia P\xc3\xa9rez BelleboniIv\xc3\xa1n Pau de la Cruz', 'Solving identity delegation problem in the e-government environment', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10207-011-0140-7', 'At present, many countries allow citizens or entities to interact with the government outside the telematic environment through a legal representative who is granted powers of representation. However, if the interaction takes place through the Internet, only primitive mechanisms of representation are available, and these are mainly based on non-dynamic offline processes that do not enable quick and easy identity delegation. This paper proposes a system of dynamic delegation of identity between two generic entities that can solve the problem of delegated access to the telematic services provided by public authorities. The solution herein is based on the generation of a delegation token created from a proxy certificate that allows the delegating entity to delegate identity to another on the basis of a subset of its attributes as delegator, while also establishing in the delegation token itself restrictions on the services accessible to the delegated entity and the validity period of delegation. Further, the paper presents the mechanisms needed to either revoke a delegation token or to check whether a delegation token has been revoked. Implications for theory and practice and suggestions for future research are discussed.']
['Julien BroisinR\xc3\xa9mi VenantPhilippe Vidal', 'Lab4CE: a Remote Laboratory for Computer Education', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s40593-015-0079-3', 'Remote practical activities have been demonstrated to be efficient when learners come to acquire inquiry skills. In computer science education, virtualization technologies are gaining popularity as this technological advance enables instructors to implement realistic practical learning activities, and learners to engage in authentic and problem-based learning. However, virtualization solutions have not been designed especially for education and do not address any pedagogical concern. Since several large-scale studies showed that instructional supports during practical activities are almost as important as technical features, this article investigates the following research question: how the scaffolding around the lab increases students\x92 engagement in remote practical learning of computer science? To answer this question, we introduce the Lab4CE environment, a remote laboratory for computer education which adopts a distributed, modular and flexible architecture to integrate a set of scaffolding tools and services intended for instructors and learners. An exploratory study conducted with 139 undergraduate students enrolled in the first year of a computer science degree suggests a positive effect of the framework on learners\x92 engagement when they come to practice system administration, and reveals a significant positive correlation between students\x92 activity within the system and students\x92 learning achievement.']
['Anas AloudatKatina Michael', 'Toward the regulation of ubiquitous mobile government: a\xc2\xa0case study on location-based emergency services in\xc2\xa0Australia', 'Springer', 'http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10660-010-9070-0', 'Mobile alerts, notifications and location-based emergency warning systems are now an established part of mobile government strategies in an increasing number of countries worldwide. In Australia the national emergency warning system (NEWS) was instituted after the tragic Black Saturday Victorian Bushfires of February 2009. NEWS has enabled the provision of public information from the government to the citizen during emergencies anywhere and any time. Moving on from traditional short message service (SMS) notifications and cell broadcasting to more advanced location-based services, this paper explores the major issues faced by government, business and society at large, toward the realization of a fully fledged emergency system for personal mobile devices. This qualitative study contains two phases: phase\xa01 gathered issues from the general public via an open-ended survey question, and phase 2 gathered issues from key informant interviews. The data was analyzed using qualitative content analysis techniques. The results are presented in a narrative form granting detailed insight into the main challenges faced in the deployment of a mobile government application. The complex interplay between government agencies, telecommunications carriers and the Australian public is presented, ultimately leading down a path of regulation. By using a qualitative approach it is hoped that the intimate lessons learnt in the Australian landscape can be applied to other nations considering mobile government applications. The outcome of the paper is predominantly practical providing a series of recommendations toward the successful deployment of mobile government applications.']
['Cho, Jaeho and Shah, Dhavan V. and McLeod, Jack M. and McLeod, Douglas M. and Scholl, Rosanne M. and Gotlieb, Melissa R.', 'Campaigns, Reflection, and Deliberation: Advancing an O-S-R-O-R Model of Communication Effects', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Recent communication research concerning participatory politics has found that the effects of media, especially campaign ads, conventional news, and online political resources, are largely mediated through interpersonal discussion about politics. This article extends this line of theorizing about the role of political conversation in citizen competence by testing an O-S-R-O-R model of campaign communication mediation, a modification and extension of the longstanding O-S-O-R model of communication effects. This model combines insights from iterations of the communication mediation model (McLeod et al., 2001; Shah et al., 2007) and cognitive mediation model (Eveland, 2001; Eveland, Shah, & Kwak, 2003) to theorize a set of the interrelated reasoning (R) processes that channel the influences of campaign exposure and news consumption on political engagement. Three key mediators of campaign and news influence are postulated: face-to-face political conversation, online political messaging, and cognitive reflection. We provide empirical evidence to test this model by merging two datasets: (1) tracking of the content and placement of campaign messages in the 2000 and 2004 election cycles, and (2) surveys of traditional and digital media consumption and levels of campaign participation during these same elections. Findings reveal that political conversation, political messaging, and cognitive reflection mediate the effects of campaign advertising exposure and news consumption on political participation and knowledge, providing considerable support for our theory. This O-S-R-O-R model helps organize a large body of theorizing and research on campaigns and conversation in the communication sciences.']
['Heikka, Taneli', 'The Rise of the Mediating Citizen: Time, Space, and Citizenship in the Crowdsourcing of Finnish Legislation', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "The digitally crowdsourced law for same-sex marriage was passed in Finland in 2014. Activists produced the draft text of the law on digital collaboration platforms, and support for the law was petitioned using strong digital identification. This article analyzes how the campaign for the Equal Marriage Law used new digital tools and created practices that affect democratic citizenship and power making. The campaigners succeeded in introducing to the national political debate the idea of a bill that had been twice rejected in the political process. This article introduces the typology of the mediating citizen to describe civic action that is able to affect representative politics in a constructive way and reprogram power. The radical legal framework, the Citizens' Initiative Act, offered a channel to pursue meaningful civic agency in Finland and counter the legitimacy crisis of representative democracies. In future efforts for enhancing digital civic participation such a channel for real impact should be part of the design."]
['Sobbrio, Paola and Jorqui, Mar\xc3\xada', 'An overview of the role of society and risk in xenotransplantation', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Background\nOver time, the notion of public has evolved. While the concept of public was initially conceived of as a single undifferentiated entity, the common understanding is now that a variety of differentiated, multifaceted and multiple public(s) can be constructed for different purposes. This is equally true in xenotransplantation; the literature shows how different kind of publics can be introduced as relevant. The paper explores the notion of public and the contemporary participatory procedures as participatory rights for citizens in decisions concerning technoscience and society. Its perspective, thus, is normative; namely, it aims at understanding how the political role of citizens is changing in democratic societies where matters of innovation are concerned. It is focused on xenotransplantation whose connections with public discourse and practices are quite paradigmatic among new emerging biomedical technologies, due to its peculiar risks.\n\nMethods and results\nThe paper reviews the historical background of risk communication and public involvement in science-based decision-making and provides an overview of the current roles and meanings of deliberative procedures in xenotransplantation. After a short discussion of the history of the social implementation of xenotransplantation, the construction of the different publics dealing with this biomedical technology is briefly analysed. Publics have been firstly conceived of as objects of research, which has looked at them to quantify people's positive and negative attitudes towards xenotransplantation. Further developments have led to the notion of the public as composed of citizens, empowered as subjects of decisions. In both Canadian and Australian consultations, citizens were engaged in a complex learning process aimed at committing them to a decision. Despite the fact both public consultations represented important forms of experimental democracy, they were still focused on seeking consensus and assessing compliance from citizens. New Zealand is the most recent example of public consultation in xenotransplantation. Likewise, several public consultations have recently been launched by the European Commission on Advanced Therapies. Unlike in the Canadian and Australian cases, the latter initiatives aimed to reach only certain parts of the population, and the overall consultations were prepared to seek approval.\n\nConclusions\nSeveral categories of individuals may be interesting and interested publics in xenotransplantation. This is a field in which the importance of the potential risks that xenotransplants pose to society has been widely discussed. The point is that publics should not only be educated about the risk but should be given an opportunity to participate actively in the decision about whether and under what conditions they are exposed to the risk. Likewise, the boundaries between surveys, consultations and collection of advice may be blurred in actual practices. The hope remains that all different instruments either to collect or disseminate knowledge, and to explore new tools of governance may help connect science and policy to society in deeper and more complex ways. The next step points to a different meaning of public participation. It is shifting from participation as mere consensus and risk acceptance, to public engagement as a form of shared responsibility for risk control and regulatory decision-making."]
['Griessler, Erich', 'Experts, policy-makers and citizens: actor constellations and xenotransplantation policies in international comparison', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'At the turn of the millennium, xenotransplantation was a topic with a high potential for societal dispute. The reasons were possible infection risks, necessary measures of risk management and surveillance, associated constraints of human rights as well as a number of various other ethical concerns. This situation prompted discussions about the governance of xenotransplantation on a national and international level. This paper compares international xenotransplantation policies and investigates patterns of policy-making as well as the different role of experts, policy-makers and the public therein.\nAlthough it might be assumed that xenotransplantation was discussed globally in the same way, international comparison shows cultural contingency. First, although international organizations identified xenotransplantation as a global problem requiring broad public discussion, the intensity of public debates varied strongly among countries. Second, the topical framing of xenotransplantation differed between countries. Nevertheless, the problems of infection risk and organ shortage often dominated, whereas ethics and animal welfare issues were marginalized. Finally, xenotransplantation polices varied. In most cases regulation meant the decision to provide a legal framework to continue research, some countries took a wait and see position, and a minority opted for a legal or de-facto moratorium.\nWhen comparing ways of policy-making, it is possible to discern different types of decision-making, i.e. bureaucratic, bureaucratic-technocratic, parliamentarian-political and participatory.\nThe bureaucratic type was elitist and closed; it limited decision-making to the civil service and handpicked internal experts. The bureaucratic-technocratic type was a bit more inclusive, but still, the role of the civil service was particularly strong. In addition, external experts \xe2\x80\x93 typically natural scientists and physicians, sometimes ethicists \xe2\x80\x93 were involved in advisory bodies. In a few cases, stakeholders and NGOs were also included to some degree. The parliamentarian-political type also included elected politicians in decision-making. Stakeholders and NGOs were only included as informants. The participatory type involved a very broad range of actors, i.e. civil servants, experts, elected politicians, NGOs, technology assessment organisations, and the general public.\nDifferent types of policy-making used diverse approaches towards technology assessment (TA). Whereas in bureaucratic policy-making no formal TA processes were launched, the bureaucratic-technocratic type relied on expert TA. In the parliamentarian-political type, expert TA was complemented by the involvement of elected politicians. In the participatory approach, TA andparticipatory technology assessment (pTA) were used and attempts were made to link participation to politics.\nThe bureaucratic type of policy-making process was informed by workshops and conferences organized by international organizations, in which civil servants participated. In the bureaucratic-technocratic type, a broader range of information was used, stemming from experts or international organizations and early movers in xenotransplantation regulation. In the parliamentarian-political approach, in addition, stakeholders and NGOs provided information. Again, the participatory type used the broadest range of information, including international organizations, scientists, NGOs, and citizens.\nThe different types of policy-making involved the general public quite differently. The bureaucratic type neither involved, nor informed, the public. Similarly, the bureaucratic-technocratic approach involved the public only to a small degree. Citizens were included via survey research and information about results via the Internet. Also, the parliamentarian-political approach applied survey research and information; in one country, citizen involvement also meant consultation of selected actors. The participatory type used a range of activities to involve the public (e.g. citizen juries, consensus conferences, online debates, public discussion, theater plays). In Switzerland, several mechanisms of direct and representative democracy were utilized to initiate a debate.\nThe four approaches also differed in respect of accountability and openness. The bureaucratic, the bureaucratic-technocratic, and the parliamentarian-political approach had problems in one way or another and to different degrees regarding openness and accountability of recruitment, agenda setting, openness to the public, conflict of interest, and methods applied. The participatory approach, on the other hand, was open to the public, often gave ordinary citizens an opportunity to set an agenda, often recruited experts and citizens based on open call for tenders and explicit criteria, and used a broad variety of participatory methods.\nIn summary, comparison shows that in most cases the decision was taken to continue xenotransplantation research in principle. Most often processes of decision-making were bureaucratic-technocratic and \xe2\x80\x93 despite the rhetoric of public participation \xe2\x80\x93 rarely involved citizens. The processes were only open and accountable to a small degree and framed xenotransplantation rather narrowly in terms of organ shortage and risk. Thereafter, expert bodies rather quickly turned their focus on the concrete details of risk regulation and management.\n\nReference\n[1] Griessler E, Biegelbauer P, Hansen J, Loeber A, 2012 Citizen participation in decision-making on complex and sensitive issues. Experiences with xenotransplantation. Report of the project "Impact of Citizen Participation on decision-making in a knowledge intensive policy field (\'CIT-PART). http://www.cit-part.at/CIT%20PART%202.Edition.pdf, 2.9.2013.']
['Gottfried, Heidi', 'Teaching and Learning Guide for: Gender and Employment: A Global Lens on Feminist Analyses and Theorizing of Labor Markets', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Author\'s introductionThis review of recent feminist analyses and theorizing of labor markets uses a global lens to reveal the forces shaping gender inequality. The first section introduces the key words of globalization, gender and work organization. Next, I examine gender as embodied labor activity in globalized worksites, and the effects of globalization on gendered patterns of work and life. Putting gender at the center of globalization discourses highlights the historical and cultural variability of gender relations intersecting with class, race and nationality, and highlights the impact of restructuring on workers, organizations and institutions at the local, national and regional as well as transnational levels. Then I turn to look at labor market restructuring through commodification of care, outsourcing of household tasks and informalization of employment to show how these processes shape the complexity of relationships between and the interconnectedness of social inequalities transnationally and in global cities. Place matters when analyzing how service employment alters divisions of labor and how these labor market changes are gendered. Global restructuring not only poses new challenges but also creates new opportunities for mobilization around a more robust notion of equality. The final section explores the development of spaces for collective action and the rise of new women\'s and feminist movements (e.g., transnational networks, non-governmental agencies). The study of globalization, gender and employment has broad importance for understanding not only the social causes but also the social consequences of the shift to a post-industrial society.Author recommendsAcker, Joan 2004. \'Gender, Capitalism and Globalization.\'Critical Sociology 30, 1: 17\xe2\x80\x9341.Feminist scholarship both critiques gender-blind globalization discourses and an older generation of women and development theories. By tracing the lineage of current feminist literature on globalization to women and development research, Joan Acker shows both the continuities and distance traveled from the previous terrain of debate. New feminist scholarship on globalization owes a debt to these important, albeit limited, studies of women at work in Latin America, Africa and Asia, but acknowledges the need to go beyond the category of women to analyze specific forms and cultural expressions of gendered power in relationship to class and other hierarchies. One of the major advances in feminist theory comes under the microscope of Acker\'s keen analysis when she excavates how gender is both embodied and embedded in the logic and structuring of globalizing capitalism. This extends the case she made in her earlier pioneering research on gender relations being embedded in the organization of major institutions. For the study of globalization, Acker posits that the gendered construction (and cultural coding) of capitalist production separated from human reproduction has resulted in subordination of women in both domains. Acker uncovers the historical legacy of a masculine-form of dominance associated with production in the money economy that was exported to and embedded in colonialist installation of large-scale institutions. By the late 20th Century large-scale institutions promoted images and emotions that expressed economic and political power in terms of new articulations of hegemonic masculinity. As an article outlining debates on the nature of globalization and of gender, it serves as a good introduction to the topic.Chow, Esther Ngan-Ling 2003. \'Gender Matters: Studying Globalization and Social Change in the 21st Century.\'International Sociology 18, 3: 443\xe2\x80\x93460.Chow\'s introduction to the special issue on \'Gender, Globalization and Social Change in the 21st Century\' in International Sociology (2003) reviews the literature on gender and globalization and provides an excellent overview of \'gender matters.\' Her definition of globalization captures salient features of the current era. This definition encompasses the economic, political cultural and social dimensions of globalization. Further, she offers a framework for studying the \'dialectics of globalization\', as \'results of conflicting interaction between the global and local political economies and socio-cultural conditions\xe2\x80\xa6\' A dialectics of globalization is a fruitful approach for studying transformative possibilities. This article could serve as background reading or as part of an introductory section.Arlie Russell Hochschild, Arlie Russell. 2003. \'Love and Gold.\' Pp. 15\xe2\x80\x9330 in Global Women: Nannies, Maids and Sex Workers in the New Economy, edited by Barbara Ehrenreich and Arlie Russell Hochschild. Metropolitan Books.Hochschild\'s chapter in Global Women examines the transfer of traditional women\'s work to migrant women. Women in rich countries are turning over care work (nannies, maids, elder care) to female migrant workers who can be paid lower wages with few or no benefits and minimal legal protections. This global transfer of services associated with a wife\'s traditional role extracts a different kind of labor than in prior migrations based on agricultural and industrial production. Emotional, sexual as well as physical labor is extracted in this current phase of globalization; in particular, emotional labor and \'love is the new gold\'. Women migrate not only to escape poverty, but also to escape patriarchy in their home countries by earning an independent income and by physical autonomy from patriarchal obligations and expectations. Many female migrants who leave poor countries can earn more money as nannies and maids in the First World than in occupations (nurses, teachers, clerical workers) if they remained in their own country. Thus, migration can be seen as having contradictory effects on women\'s well-being and autonomy. This chapter can be used in a section dealing with the specific topic of globalization and care work or in a section introducing the topic of gendered labor activities.McDowell, Linda, Diane Perrons, Colette Fagan, Kath Ray and Kevin Ward. 2005. \'The Contradictions and Intersections of Class and Gender in a Global City: Placing Working Women\'s Lives on the Research Agenda.\'Environment and Planning A 37, 441\xe2\x80\x93461.This group of prominent social geographers from the UK collaborates to great effect in a welcome addition to the literature theorizing the complex articulations of gender and class in global cities. Their detailed research comparing three localities in Greater London is a corrective to the oft-cited multi-site study of global cities by Saskia Sassen. They find that Sassen underestimates gains and losses for both men and women in the \'new\' economy. Place makes a difference when assessing the impact of women\'s increased rates of labor market participation on income inequality and patterns of childcare. The article outlines a new research agenda by \'placing\' working women\'s lives at the center of analysis.Parrenas, Rhacel Salazar 2008. The Force of Domesticity: Filipina Migrants and Globalization. New York: New York University Press.Rhacel Salazar Parrenas brings together her influential research on Filipina migrants and extends her path-breaking ethnographic analysis to include Filipina domestic workers in Rome and Los Angeles and entertainers in Tokyo. David Eng incisively captures the importance of Parrenas\'s analysis when he states, \'Extracted from home and homeland only to be reinserted into the domestic spaces of the global north, these servants of globalization exemplify an ever-increasing international gendered division of labor, one compelling us to reexamine the neo-liberal coupling of freedom and opportunity with mobility and migration\'. The book is well suited to illuminate discussions of domesticity and migration, transnational migrant families, the impact of migration laws in \'home\' and \'host\' countries, and transnational movements among migrant women.Walby, Sylvia. 2009. Globalization and Inequalities: Complexity and Contested Modernities. London: Sage.This book introduces new theoretical concepts and tests alternative hypotheses to explain variation in trajectories of gender relations cross-nationally. It synthesizes and reviews a vast literature, ranging from the social sciences to the natural sciences to construct a new approach to theorizing the development of gender regimes in comparative perspective. Sylvia Walby seeks to explain the different patterns of inequalities across a large number of countries. The analysis differentiates between neo-liberal and social democratic varieties of political economy, and makes explicit the gender component of institutions and their consequences. The project builds on Walby\'s pioneering work on comparative gender regimes, and extends the research by operationalizing empirical indicators for a range of key concepts, and by analyzing links between a wide set of institutions (including economy, polity, education and violence) and how these are gendered in specific ways. As in the past, Walby is not afraid to tackle big questions and to offer new answers. Throughout the book, like in her previous body of research, Walby takes on the question of social inclusion/exclusion and critically interrogates concepts of democracy, political participation, equality and rights. Walby uses a comparative lens to examine the democratic \'deficit\' in liberal and social democratic countries, and how migration restructures patterns of inequality and the consequent reconstitution of national and ethnic relations within countries. There is more to the book than abstract theoretical debates. Walby poses and assesses alternative political projects for achieving equality. The book is an original contribution that will likely influence sociology in general and theories of social change in particular.Online resourcesStatus of women in the world: United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM) http://www.unifem.orgUNIFEM was established at the United Nations in order to foster women\'s empowerment through innovative programs and strategies. Its mission statement summarizes UNIFEM\'s goals as follows: \'Placing the advancement of women\'s human rights at the center of all of its efforts, UNIFEM focuses on reducing feminized poverty, ending violence against women; reversing the spread of HIV/AIDS among women and girls; and achieving gender equality in democratic governance in times of peace as well as war\'. The website includes information on global initiatives such as zero tolerance of violence against women, the impact of the economic crisis on women migrant workers, and strategizing for gender proportionate representation in Nigeria. Primary documents relevant to women\'s advancement appear on the website; these include the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) and the UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. UNIFEM publishes monographs assessing the progress of women around the world. One notable example is the 2005 publication on Women, Work & Poverty by Martha Chen, Joann Vanek, Francie Lund, James Heintz with Renana Jhabvala and Christine Bonner.http://www.unifem.org/attachments/products/PoWW2005_eng.pdfGender equity indexhttp://www.socialwatch.org/en/avancesyRetrocesos/IEG_2008/tablas/valoresdelIEG2008.htmSocial Watch produces an up-to-date gender equity index composed of three dimensions and indicators: empowerment (% of women in technical positions, % of women in management and government positions, % of women in parliaments, % of women in ministerial posts); economic activity (income gap, activity rate gap); and education (literacy rate gap, primary school enrollment rate gap, secondary school enrollment gap, and tertiary education enrollment gap). These separate indicators in addition to the gender equity index are arrayed by country. There are 157 countries, representing 94% of the world\'s population, in the sample. Mapping these indicators across countries presents a comparative picture of the absolute and relative standing of women and gender equity in the world.Focus QuestionsKey words: Globalization1. What is meant by globalization?\n* \xe2\x80\x82\xe2\x80\x82\xe2\x80\x82a.\xe2\x80\x82To what extent is globalization new? Or is globalization another phase of a long historical process?\n* \xe2\x80\x82\xe2\x80\x82\xe2\x80\x82b.\xe2\x80\x82Can we differentiate inter-national (connections between) from the global (inter-penetrations)?Feminism and globalization\n* 1\xe2\x80\x82How do feminist interventions challenge globalization theories (for example the presumed relationship between globalization and homogenization and individualization)?\n* 2\xe2\x80\x82How do different feminisms frame and assess the conditions of globalization around the world?Gender and globalization\n* 1\xe2\x80\x82What role do women, and different women, play in the global economy?\n* 2\xe2\x80\x82Are patriarchal arrangements changing as a result of greater economic integration at the world level?Migration and mobilities\n* 1\xe2\x80\x82What does Parrenas mean by partial citizenship?\n* a.\xe2\x80\x82How does it relate to the case of Philippine migrant workers?\n* b.\xe2\x80\x82What is the relationship between \'home\' and \'host\' nations?\n* c.\xe2\x80\x82How important is a vehicle like the Tinig Filipino in forging \'imagined communities\' and new realities?\n* 2\xe2\x80\x82What is the mix of choice and compulsion in the different migrations mobilities of men and women?Globalization and politics\n* 1\xe2\x80\x82Are women subject to the same kinds of legal protections (and regulations) that evolved in earlier periods?\n* 2\xe2\x80\x82Do new flexible production processes and flexible work arrangements undercut such legal protections?Globalization and collective mobilization\n* 1\xe2\x80\x82Does globalization open spaces for new women\'s movements, new solidarities, new subjectivities and new forms of organizing?\n* a.\xe2\x80\x82If we place feminist movements and practices into theorizations of globalization, how do we change the ways we understand politics in the contemporary moment?\n* b.\xe2\x80\x82What new subjects and practices arise when we shift perspectives and methods?Sample syllabusCourse outline and reading assignmentsConceptualizing the \'Global\' and \'Globalization\'Dicken, Peter, Jamie Peck and Adam Tickell. 1997. \'Unpacking the Global.\' Pp. 158\xe2\x80\x93166 in Geographies of Economies, edited by Roger Lee and Jane Willis. London: Arnold.Amin, Ash and Nigel Thrift. 1996. \'Holding Down the Global.\' Pp. 257\xe2\x80\x93260 in Globalization, Institutions, and Regional Development in Europe, edited by Ash Amin and Nigel Thrift. Oxford: Oxford University Press.Acker, Joan. 2004. \'Feminism, Gender and Globalization.\'Critical Sociology 30: 17\xe2\x80\x9342.Background Reading:Gottfried, Heidi. 2006. \'Feminist Theories of Work.\' Pp. 121\xe2\x80\x93154 in Social Theory at Work, edited by Marek Korczynski, Randy Hodson, Paul Edwards. Oxford: Oxford University Press.Peterson, V. Spike. 2008. \'Intersectional Analytics in Global Political Economy.\' in UberKeruszungen, edited Cornelia Klinger and Gudrun-Axeli Knapp. Munster: Wesfalisches Dmpfboot.Chow, Esther Ngan-Ling. 2003. \'Gender Matters: Studying Globalization and Social change in the 21st Century.\'International Sociology 18 (3): 443\xe2\x80\x93460.Walby, Sylvia. 2009. Globalization and Inequalities: Complexity and Contested Modemities. London: Sage.Gender and GlobalizationGottfried, Heidi. Forthcoming. \'Gender and Employment: A Global Lens on Feminist Analyses and Theorizing of Labor Markets.\'Sociology CompassFernandez-Kelly, Patricia and Diane Wolf. 2001. \'Dialogue on Globalization.\'Signs 26: 1243\xe2\x80\x931249.Bergeron, Suzanne. 2001. \'Political Economy Discourses of Globalization and Feminist Politics.\'Signs 26: 983\xe2\x80\x931006.Freeman, Carla. 2001. \'Is Local: Global as Feminine: Masculine? Rethinking the Gender of Globalization.\'Signs 26:1007\xe2\x80\x931037.Theorizing Politics and GlobalizationSassen, Saskia. 1996. \'Toward a Feminist Analytics of the Global Economy.\'Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies 4: 7\xe2\x80\x9341.Parrenas, Rhacel Salazer. 2001. \'Transgressing the Nation-State: The Partial Citizenship and \'Imagined (Global) Community\' of Migrant Filipina Domestic Workers.\'Signs 26:1129\xe2\x80\x931154.Bosniak, Linda. 2009. \'Citizenship, Noncitizenship, and the Transnationalization of Domestic Work.\' Pp. 127\xe2\x80\x93156 in Migrations and Mobilities: Citizenship, Borders, and Gender, edited by Seyla Benhabib and Judith Resnik. New York: New York University Press.Background Reading:Benhabib, Seyla and Judith Resnik. 2009. \'Introduction: Citizenship and Migration Theory Engendered.\' Pp. 1\xe2\x80\x9346 in Migrations and Mobilities: Citizenship, Borders, and Gender, edited by Seyla Benhabib and Judith Resnik. New York: New York University Press.Migrations, Mobilities and CareHochschild, Arlie Russell. 2003. \'Love and Gold.\' Pp. 15\xe2\x80\x9330 in Global Women: Nannies, Maids and Sex Workers in the New Economy, edited by Barbara Ehrenreich and Arlie Russell Hochschild. Metropolitan Books.Hondagneu-Sotelo, Pierrette. 2001. Domestica: Immigrant Workers Cleaning and Caring the Shadows of Affluence. Berkeley: University of California Press.Parrenas, Richard Salazar. 2008. The Force of Domesticity: Filipina Migrants and Globalization. New York: New York University Press.Pyle, Jean 2006. \'Globalizations, Transnational Migration, and Gendered Care Work.\'Globalizations 3(3): 283\xe2\x80\x93295.Qayum, Seemin and Raka Ray. 2003. \'Grappling with Modernity: India\'s Respectable Classes and the Culture of Domestic Servitude.\'Ethnography 4: 520\xe2\x80\x93555.Restructuring and Gender Inequality in Global CitiesMcDowell, Linda, Diane Perrons, Colette Fagan, Kath Ray and Kevin Ward. 2005. \'The Contradictions and Intersections of Class and Gender in a Global City: Placing Working Women\'s Lives on the Research Agenda.\'Environment and Planning A 37: 441\xe2\x80\x93461.McDowell, Linda. 1997. \'A Tale of Two Cities? Embedded Organizations and Embodied Workers in the City of London.\' Pp. 118\xe2\x80\x93129 in Geographies of Economies, edited by Roger Lee and Jane Willis. London: Arnold.Bruegel, Irene. 1999. \'Globalization, Feminization and Pay Inequalities in London and the UK.\' Pp. 73\xe2\x80\x9393 in Women, Work and Inequality, edited by Jeanne Gregory, Rosemary Sales and Ariane Hegewisch. New York: St. Martin\'s Press.Embodiment and RestructuringHalford, Susan and Mike Savage. 1997. \'Rethinking Restructuring: Embodiment, Agency and Identity in Organizational Change.\' Pp. 108\xe2\x80\x93117 in Geographies of Economies, edited by Roger Lee and Jane Willis. London: Arnold.Gottfried, Heidi. 2003 \'Temp(t)ing Bodies: Shaping Bodies at Work in Japan.\'Sociology 37: 257\xe2\x80\x93276.Gender in the Global Economy: Post-Socialist and Emerging EconomiesSalzinger, Leslie. 2004. \'Trope Chasing: Engendering Global Labor Markets.\'Critical Sociology 30: 43\xe2\x80\x9362.Kathryn Ward, Fahmida Rahman, AKM Saiful Islam, Rifat Akhter and Nashid Kama. 2004. \'The Nari Jibon Project: Effects on Global Structuring on University Women\'s Work and Empowerment In Bangladesh.\'Critical Sociology 30: 63\xe2\x80\x93102Otis, Eileen. 2007. \'Virtual Personalism in Beijing: Learning Deference and Femininity at a Global Luxury Hotel. Pp. 101\xe2\x80\x93123 in Working in China: Ethnographies of Labor and Workplace Transformation, edited by Ching Kwan Lee. Routledge.Background Reading:Ferguson and Monique Mironesco (eds.). 2008. Gender and Globalization in Asia and the Pactific: Method, Practice, Theory. Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press.Globalization and Policy DevelopmentsLenz, Ilse. 2004. \'Globalization, Gender and Work: Perspectives on Global Regulation.\' Pp. 29\xe2\x80\x9352 in Equity in the Workplace: Gendering Workplace Policy Analysis, edited by Heidi Gottfried and Laura Reese. Lexington Press.Woodward, Alison. 2004. \'European Gender Mainstreaming: Promises and Pitfalls of Transformative Policy.\' Pp. 77\xe2\x80\x93100 in Equity in the Workplace: Gendering Workplace Policy Analysis, edited by Heidi Gottfried and Laura Reese, Lexington Press.Fraser, Nancy. 2007. \'Reframing Justice in a Globalizing World.\' in Global Inequality, edited by David Held and Ayse Kaya. Polity.Gender and the New EconomyWalby, Sylvia, Heidi Gottfried, Karin Gottschall and Mari Osawa. 2006. Gendering and the Knowledge Economy: Comparative Perspectives, Palgrave, See chapters by Sylvia Walby, Mari Osawa, and Diane Perrons.Ng, Cecelia. 2004. \'Globalization and Regulation: The New Economy, Gender and Labor Regimes.\'Critical Sociology 30: 103\xe2\x80\x93108.Globalization and Transnational OrganizingFerree, Myra Marx. 2006. \'Globalization and Feminism: Opportunities and Obstacles for Activism in the Global Area.\' Pp. 3\xe2\x80\x9323 in Global Feminism: Transnational Women\'s Activism, Organizing, and Human Rights, edited by Myra Marx Ferree and Aili Mari Tripp. New York: New York University Press.Yuval-Davis, Nira. 2006. \'Human/Women\'s Rights and Feminist Transversal Politics.\' Pp. 275\xe2\x80\x93295 in Global Feminism: Transnational Women\'s Activism, Organizing, and Human Rights, Myra Marx Ferree and Aili Mari Tripp. New York: New York University Press.Mohanty, Chandra Talpade. 2006. "Under Western Eyes" Revisited: Feminist Solidarity Through Anti-Capitalist Struggles.\' Pp. 17\xe2\x80\x9342 in Feminism without Borders: Decolonizing Theory, Practicing Solidarity, edited by Durham, N.C.: Duke University Press.']
["Liston, Vanessa and Harris, Clodagh and O'Toole, Mark", 'Bridging Normative Democratic Theory and Internet Technologies: A Proposal for Scaling Citizen Policy Deliberations', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "This article presents an experimental model for citizen deliberation that bridges the gap between developments in normative deliberative theory, and online participation and deliberation in practice. The Social Web for Inclusive and Transparent democracy (SOWIT) model is designed for integration into policy-making processes. It is currently being developed in consultation with citizens, civil society organizations, and Councilors in an Irish local authority and will be implemented in 2014. Our approach is rooted in Dryzek and Niemeyer's (Dryzek and Niemeyer [2008]. American Political Science Review 102(4): 481\xe2\x80\x9393) innovations in discursive representation and meta-consensus as well as B\xc3\xa4chtiger et al.'s (B\xc3\xa4chtiger et al. [2010]. Journal of Political Philosophy 18: 32\xe2\x80\x9363) sequential approach to deliberation. SOWIT pioneers a dynamic implementation of a meta-consensus framework for structuring and incentivizing policy deliberations. In this article, we present the model, explain its normative rationale, and outline the experimental framework."]
['Conversi, Daniele', 'Teaching and Learning Guide for: Democracy and Nationalism', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This guide accompanies the following article: Daniele Conversi, \'Democracy and Nationalism \xe2\x80\x93 Teaching Guide\', Sociology Compass 2/1 (2008): 156\xe2\x80\x93182, 10.1111/j.1751-9020.2007.00063.xIntroductionFor many years, scholars and laymen have hung on to the belief that democracy, particularly liberal democracy, could easily do away with national and ethnic conflicts, so that we could all live in a more peaceful world. Many have forgotten that dictators in the past had already used democracy to establish their iron grip. Hitler seized power in a democratic context, however, unique and peculiar may we judge Weimar Germany from today\'s standards. Over 50 years later, Milosevic\'s ascent to power in Serbia was confirmed within an electoral democratic framework. More recently, populist autocrats like Italy\'s PM Silvio Berlusconi, Iran\'s President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and some Latin American leaders have thrived on majoritarian democratic principles, treating electoral results as vox populi vox dei while manipulating popular emotions through patriotic appeals.However, an increasing number of authors share a disenchanted view of liberal democracy, stressing its incapacity to bring durable peace and granting human co-existence. This trend can be called \'demo-skepticism\' and should not be confused with \'anti-democratic\' thought. \'Demo-skeptics\' stress in particular democracy\'s incapacity to regulate and rein in nationalism. Michael Man\'s milestone work on the Dark Side of Democracy demonstrates how majority rule can lead to the explosion of ethnic cleansing and genocide.In line with Mann\'s argument, majoritarian democracies as political systems do not often take into account minority aspirations and identities. In such a context, the rule of the dominant ethnonational majority remains unchallenged on most grounds. Obsessed by fear of difference, many majoritarian democracies have been historically unable to deal with ethnic, cultural and religious pluralism \xe2\x80\x93 depending on which of these bases a majority group is defined. Moreover, majoritarian democracies are often opposed, or suspicious about, multiculturalism.Over the past two centuries, this has led to self-defeating policies of cultural assimilation, predicated on a vision of cultural homogeneity, which eventually led to physical eliminationism and genocide in a context of international war. Therefore, we can identify a link between cultural homogenization, intolerance and, eventually, the degeneration of democracy.Finally, liberal democracy both in its majoritarian and in its multicultural variety, can be charged with having encouraged, rather than simply adapted to, globalization, with all its harrowing consequences. The litmus test for contemporary democracy will probably be its capacity to tackle climate change catastrophe and survive intact (http://www.oup.com/us/catalog/general/subject/politics/comparativePolitics/Nationalism/?view=usaeci=9780199228232.Annotated readings:Michael Man 2005. The Dark Side of Democracy. Explaining Ethnic Cleansing. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.This book provocatively argues that Western-style modern democracy lies at the heart of the worst tragedy of the 20th century, genocide: for man, the most horrific instances of ethnic cleansing, from the Armenian genocide to the Holocaust and the Rwandan massacres, have their roots in the increasing participation of demographic majorities into representative politics. The American Constitution\'s opening salvo, \'We are the people\', lends itself to two opposite interpretations: one ethnic, the other civic. The \'people\' can be either the ethnos, sharing putative descent, or the demos, sharing citizenship and hypothetical equal rights, irrespective of their descent. However, in a settler society built on pillage, destruction, and where the clearing of the conquered lands of its original inhabitants was legitimized in God\'s name, the ethnic variety tended to prevail, imbued with legalistic and ideological justifications. In fact, some of the worst instances of genocides occurred in settler societies, where invaders (white European settlers) used their immense technological superiority to subdue entire populations in order to seize land and resources.Things radically changed with Westernizing modernity and the rest of the book is entirely dedicated to the 20th century. The Armenian genocide in Turkey is recognized as the precursor of modern genocides. During the collapse of the Ottoman empire, state structures modernized and westernized rapidly and non-Muslims became suddenly exposed to the demise of Ottoman liberal consociational laws (pp. 62 and 114\xe2\x80\x93119). The Nazi Holocaust is identified as the most premeditated and state-centered of genocides (p. 201). But the \'final solution\' could only be carried out under war circumstances, during which escalation was justified as \'self-defense\'. The most extreme forms of totalitarian mass murder in human history were carried out under \'socialist\' dictatorships: Stalin, Mao, and Pol Pot exterminated much greater proportions of their own people than any nationalist regimes. Rwanda fully substantiates the book\'s core argument: Hutu genocidal leaders always spoke in the name of majoritarian democracy against Tutsi \'invaders\' (p. 443). Indeed, as in most \'developmental\' genocides, minorities (in this case, the Tutsis) were marked as \'obstacles\' to development and \'progress\'. Appeals to mass \'democracy\' were channeled through populist manipulation leading to \'democratic genocide\' (if such as notion is at all acceptable).Mann convincingly demonstrates that western did not offer salvation. His use of the concept of democracy is limited to majoritarianism or \'majority rule\'\xe2\x80\x93 hence the concern with the tyranny of the majority. Ethnic cleansing is thus linked to a plebiscitarian form of representative government as emerged with the Western nation-state system. Indeed, his book might more aptly be re-named the \'Dark side of Nation-statism\'. Neither the modern nation-state, nor Anglo-Saxon communitarianism did contemplate an extension of democratic rights beyond the narrow boundaries of the dominant ethnos, he claims.Special issue of the Political Studies Review, Volume 4 Issue 3, pp. 247\xe2\x80\x93395 (September 2006), http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/118625374/issue. The discussion based on a review symposium on Michael Mann\'s Fascists and The Dark Side of Democracy: Explaining Ethnic Cleansing.Heather Rae 2002. State Identities and the Homogenisation of Peoples. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 372 pp. This is the first systematic comparative study on cultural homogenization as it historically relates to nation-formation and state building. Practices of \'pathological homogenization\' have been a recurrent feature in modern Western history. Beginning with early modern Spain and France under Louis XIV, Rae focuses then on Turkey\'s genocidal state-building and Yugoslavia\'s waves of ethnic cleansing accompanying the country\'s break up.http://www.cambridge.org/catalogue/catalogue.asp?isbn=0511031890Andreas Wimmers 2002. Nationalist Exclusion and Ethnic Conflict: Shadows of Modernity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. The book explores the consequences of the shift from a pre-modern, multicultural to a modern, nationalized world, with its obsession with \'national\' security, homogeneity and unity. The age of empires, particularly the Ottoman Empire, is taken as evidence of an era where inter-ethnic tolerance was the norm, rather than the exception. State nationalism is recognized as a deeply exclusionary boundary-building process, leading to the destruction of collective memory, ancient communities and patterns of coexistence.http://cambridge.org/us/catalogue/catalogue.asp?isbn=0521812550Joshua Fishman 1997. In Praise of the Beloved Language. A Comparative View of Positive Ethnolinguistic Consciousness. Walter de Gruyter, 1997. This is a rich quotations-filled book by the founder of the sociology of language. It explores the centrality of vernaculars in nationalist perception of cultural homogeneity and heterogeneity. It also describes how speakers see these (their own) languages.http://www.degruyter.de/cont/fb/sk/detailEn.cfm?id=IS-9783110150902-1Will Kymlicka 1995. Multicultural Citizenship. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press. This is the text that, with Taylor\'s, launched the debate on multiculturalism. It is now a classic. Combining institutional analysis and normative political theory from the viewpoint of liberal philosophy, the book espouses a strong argument in support of collective minority rights, including cultural rights in the broader sense. As no single formula can be applied to all groups, the author sets to explore different possible types of multicultural citizenship consistent with the principles of liberal democracy.http://www.us.oup.com/us/catalog/general/subject/Politics/PoliticalTheory/PoliticalPhilosophy/?view=usa&ci=9780198290919Go to Will Kymlicka\'s homepage: http://post.queensu.ca/~kymlicka/Charles Taylor 1994. \'The Politics of Recognition\'. Pp. 25\xe2\x80\x9373 in Gutmann, Amy (ed.) Multiculturalism. Examining the Politics of Recognition. Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press. The other key text on multiculturalism, by another Canadian political philosopher (see above). It relates the quest for recognition to the concept of authenticity: an individual\'s sense of self-esteem requires not merely a passive social context but an active respect of her/his culture. The book is wholly devoted to Taylor\'s essay on recognition, with responses by eminent philosophers and other scholars from Canada and elsewhere.http://www.amazon.com/Multiculturalism-Examining-Recognition-Charles-Taylor/dp/0691037795AD Smith Nationalism and Modernism. London/New York: Routledge, 1998. Originally published as Theories of Nationalism in 1971, this is an entirely revised and updated discussion of the most influential theories in the field. It is the classic reference text for those who want to explore the most recent debates in the field. Two main oppositions are identified: on the one side, the one between modernism (nations as products of modernity) and perennialism (nations long-predating modernity); on the other side, between primordialism (nations as \'given\') and instrumentalism (nations as a product of elites\' manipulation).http://www.routledgepolitics.com/books/Nationalism-and-Modernism-isbn9780415063418Connor, Walker 2004. \'Nationalism and political illegitimacy\'. in Daniele Conversi (ed.) Ethnonationalism in the Contemporary World. London/New York: Routledge. This is possibly the most important, condensed and cogent essay written by Connor (http://easyweb.easynet.co.uk/conversi/legitimacy.pdf).David D. Laitin 2007. Nations, States, and Violence. Oxford: Oxford University Press: Oxford, 162 pp.From a rational-choice perspective, Laitin demonstrates that cultural heterogeneity is not inherently conducive to violent conflict. It is rather the contrary attempt to force homogeneity upon diverse populations that can set off civic strife and even wars. To start with, one cannot find a statistically significant correlation between cultural diversity and ethnic conflict. Neither ethnic nor cultural differences can in themselves spur mass violence and civil war. However, from a more econo-centric angle, Laitin also considers cases in\xc2\xa0which cultural/linguistic heterogeneity can be negatively correlated to the effective provision and consumption of public goods, turning into a catalyst of conflict. Laitin argues that the homogenizing nation-state is on its way to decline, most often without even ever having served its original purpose of creating cohesive, unified communities under the control of strong central governments. As the pervasiveness of governmental control overs its own citizens is now more capillary and potent than ever, ethnicizing states are no longer affordable, secure and viable and one can imagine the consequences of patriots and ethnic lobbies grabbing the levers of powers anywhere (we had a chilling warning after 9/11).The centrality of liberal-democratic institutions in the management of ethno-cultural diversity is not disputed. Indeed, Laitin proposes both institutional recognition and a fuller democratization of ethnic politics; in other words, integration without assimilation. Although a strong state can prevent ethnic conflict, its strength can also be measured by its unwillingness to embark upon self-defeating assimilations projects. In other words, a strong state must by definition be committed to the practice of full-spectrum multiculturalism.Online materialsNationalism Project (http://www.nationalismproject.org)Asen (http://www.lse.ac.uk/collections/ASEN/)Just Democracy (http://www.justdemocracyblog.org/)Just WarTheory (http://www.justwartheory.com/)Will Kymlicka\'s homepage (http://post.queensu.ca/~kymlicka/)Sociology Lens (http://sociologycompass.wordpress.com/?s=democracy)Crisis Forum - Forum for the stucly of crisis in the 21st century (http://www.crisis-forum.org.uk/)BlogsNationalism Blog (http://nationalismblog.com/), in conjunction with the Nationalism Project above.Strongdemocracy/democracybytes (http://blog.civworld.orgl). Benjamin Barber\'s blog is based on the author\'s critique of liberal (or "thin") democracy in favour of participatory politics, \'Strong Democracy": Participatory Politics for a new Age\' (http://books.google.com/books?id=2ybernCXAhgCedq=STRONG+DEMOCRACY&hl=it&source=gbs_navlink_s)Open Democracy News Analysis (http://www.opendemocracy.net)MediaDemocracy Now! Radio and TV news (http://www.democracynow.org)Specialized journals in nationalism and ethnic conflictNations and Nationalism (http://www.lse.ac.uk/collections/ASEN/nn_editorialteam.html)Nationalism & Ethnic Politics (http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=g788879026)Ethnic & Racial Studies (http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=t713685087~tab=summary)National Identities (http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~content=g713439430~db=all)Ethnopolitics (http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=g779084969~tab=summary)Sample syllabusSee \'Theories of Nationalism\' (POL 563) for classroom use. (http://easyweb.easynet.co.uk/conversi/tnn2005) has been built and improved over fifteen years of teaching in various European and US Universities: it is specifically designed for classroom use at levels 2 or 3.Topics for lectures and discussionDoes (liberal) democracy offer an opportunity to recognize and accept the co-existence of various cultures side by side within one polis, i.e. the practice of multi-culturalism? Or does rather the demos in tend inevitably to be replaced by the ethnos lurking behind? In other words, does democracy breed ethnic intolerance? If so, under which circumstances? In which contexts?CourseIntroduction/Overview: Definitions, problemsWhat is Nationalism? How does it relate to democracy? How do both interact with cultural pluralism?Weeks 2\xe2\x80\x936Theories of nationalism (see the syllabus above)Weeks 6\xe2\x80\x939Theories of democracy and conflictMedia and democracyDemocracy, the environment and the risk societyClimate change and global population displacement: Democracy\'s tragic termination?Readings: see the annotated readings aboveIs cultural homogenization more likely to lead to conflict, war or genocide?Examples: highly homogenous Korea (both North and South), has provided the battleground for numerous tragic wars in this century. In contrast, what by the same standards is indicated to be as the most heterogeneous country in the world, Tanzania, has known a relatively peaceful socio-political Life since its creation (1964) and has been free of major ethnic and other tensions in comparison with most other African countries.The rich texture and lively variety of countries which host a multiplicity of Lifestyles and cultural forms represented the natural condition of mankind before the Western nation-state deformed it and altered it beyond recognition.Seminar idea/individual projectEach student brings a model and an example of how majority rule, smuggled as democracy can clash with minority aspirations. This can be taken from any country, either from historical records or from the present day (as shown in the current news). Then identify possible solutions and strategies of conflict management and regulation. In all cases, see whether liberal institution\xe2\x80\x93building and the enshrining of human rights (including social rights but not ethnic specific) can have a positive impact during transitional phases of democratization.Alternatively discuss whether democracy can exist without freedom of expression, particularly in the media. In which countries, does media monopoly (or actual/de facto censorship) turn democracy into an empty word? Also, explore the connection between censorship, public manipulation and populist patriotism: How easily can patriotism be abused by political elites in conditions of information deficit? that is, when critical information is unavailable?Finally, move these questions into the future and relate them to predictions about climate change. Imagine how climate change will eventually affect democratic practices \xe2\x80\x93 try to imagine the ways in which this can happen, particularly in reference to mass migrations, cultural destruction, boundary-building, and conflict over dwindling resources. Will the global emergency exasperate already existing ethno-national conflicts propping up new and more aggressive forms of censorship through nationalism and patriotism? Will nationalism and war plunge the world into further chaos? Or rather will the new global crisis encourage states and elites to collaborate? Will it provide an opportunity to build vast supranational coordination efforts, establishing thus some form of cosmopolitan governance?']
['Hughey, Matthew W.', 'Teaching and Learning Guide for: A Glimpse into the Sociology of White Antiracism and White Nationalism', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This guide accompanies the following article: Matthew W. Hughey, \'The Janus Face of Whiteness: Toward a Cultural Sociology of White Nationalism and White Antiracism\', Sociology Compass 3/6 (2009): 920\xe2\x80\x93936, 10.1111/j.1751-9020.2009.00244.xAuthor\'s introductionOver the past 20\xc2\xa0years, the study of white racial identity has received in-depth, interdisciplinary attention. Under sociological scrutiny, the study of whiteness has traversed quite a few stages: from understandings of whiteness as a category replete with social privileges, as a mere reflection of non-racial (often class-based) dynamics, to its most recent turn that emphasizes the contextual and intersectional heterogeneity of whiteness. Because of the increased attention to context and political disputes, the study of whiteness has never been more amenable to cultural analysis than it is today. Hence, an emphasis on different white racial formations that span a political spectrum \xe2\x80\x93 from conservative to liberal and racist to antiracist \xe2\x80\x93 is now dominant. In this vein, white nationalists and white antiracists represent the distinct polarities of contemporary inquisitions into white racial identity. Motivated by this academic milieu, this guide offers an overview of the major scholarship that address white nationalism & white antiracism, appropriate online materials, and examples from a sample syllabus. Together, these resources aim to assist in understanding the general processes and contexts that produce \'whiteness\' and imbue it with meaning, the social relationships and practices in which white racial identity identities become embedded, and how whiteness simultaneously possesses material and symbolic privileges alongside diverse and seemingly antagonistic experiences.Author recommendsThe complexity of whitenessMcDermott, Monica and Frank L. Samson 2005. \'White Racial and Ethnic Identity in the United States.\'Annual Review of Sociology\xc2\xa031: 245\xe2\x80\x9361.Any contemporary apprentice of the sociological study of white racial identity should read this essay. Monica McDermott and her student Frank Samson combine to provide a robust overview of the literature. They walk the tightrope of balancing both a broad coverage of the literature with the depth that key studies necessitate. In so doing, they put a finger on the key dilemma of studying white racial identity today: \'Navigating between the long-term staying power of white privilege and the multifarious manifestations of the experience of whiteness remains the task of the next era of research on white racial and ethnic identity\' (2005: 256).Duster, Troy 2001. \'The \'Morphing\' Properties of Whiteness.\' Pp. 113\xe2\x80\x9333 in The Making and Unmaking of Whiteness, edited by E. B. Rasmussen, E. Klinenberg, I. J. Nexica and M. Wray. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.In this essay \xe2\x80\x93 part of a larger volume on whiteness that I also recommend \xe2\x80\x93 Duster synthesizes disparate approaches to the study of whiteness. Demonstrating how some scholars understand white racial identity as a contextual and cognitive category (\'fluid\'), while some frame whiteness as a structural and fixed category of material privileges (\'frozen\'), Duster asks \'who is right?\' He answers via the metaphor of whiteness-as-water. In one moment, whiteness can morph into vapor as a contextual and unstable identity, while the next moment it can instantly transform into a harsh and unyielding form of ice-like privilege. Duster\'s essay is an excellent retort for those who argue that we should move \'beyond\' race to the utopian realm of color-blind individualism. Duster demonstrates, although the example of the supposedly egalitarian New Deal, that while race is socially constructed, the legacy of racism remains a historically reproduced and real social fact \xe2\x80\x93 denying the existence of race perpetuates racial inequality. Duster closes the chapter with a personal anecdote that grounds the historical example in modern, interactional, and everyday life.Perry, Pamela 2002. Shades of White: White Kids and Racial Identities in High School. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.Perry gives us two ethnographic studies in one \xe2\x80\x93 that of two northern California high schools: one located in a predominantly white, if economically diverse, suburb, the other situated in a multiracial urban community. Perry persistently and systematically probes the complexities of white racial identity in the practices and discourses of the youth attending these high schools. She finds that whites in the predominantly white, suburban high school do not see themselves as a unique race and take their racial identity for granted \xe2\x80\x93 they understand distinctly white practices as normative rather than as constitutive of a subjective worldview. In contrast, the whites at the multiracial, urban high school possess a more critical and comparative view of race and their own place in the racial order. In sum, Perry argues that whiteness is a set of complex, contradictory, and multiple subject positions.Wray, Matt. 2006. Not Quite White: White Trash and the Boundaries of Whiteness. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.Matt Wray brings the tools of cultural sociology viz-\xc3\xa1-viz\'symbolic boundaries\' to the interrogation of the moniker White Trash. Wray problematizes this relatively normalized term to question its origins and how it persists. Drawing upon literary texts, folklore, diaries, medical articles, and social scientific analyses from the early 1700s to the turn of the 20th century, Wray documents the multiple meanings that were projected onto poor rural whites in the United States. Of particular import, Wray demonstrates how white supremacist ideas about class and region became dominant through public health campaigns and eugenic reformations. Impoverished whites found themselves the targets of officials and activists who framed them as \'filthy\' or "feebleminded," and thus a threat to the purity and supremacy of the white race. This text is particularly informative for its demonstration of how white supremacist logic was not only focused on racial \'otherness\' but used the axes of class and location to directly demarcate and attack those seen as \'white\' yet somehow racially deficient and unworthy.Winant, Howard 2004. \'Behind Blue Eyes: Whiteness and Contemporary U.S. Racial Politics.\' Pp. 3\xe2\x80\x9316 in Off White: Readings on Race, Power, and Society, edited by Michelle Fine, Lois Weis, Linda C. Powell and April Burns. New York, NY: Routledge.In applying his now classic approach formulated in concert with Michael Omi (Racial Formations, 1986), Howard Winant applies the \'racial projects\' thesis to whites: \'I think it would be beneficial to attempt to sort out alternative conceptions of whiteness, along with the politics that both flow from and inform these conceptions. \xe2\x80\xa6 focusing on five key racial projects, which I term, far right, new right, neoconservative, neoliberal, and new abolitionist\' (2004: 6). Hence, Winant maps a theory of white identity formation onto a bifurcated \'culture war.\' Labeling this phenomenon \'racial dualism as politics,\' Winant advances a paradigm in which whiteness is undergoing \'a profound political crisis.\' Winant\'s essay is especially important for those that wish to emphasize the heterogeneity of white racial identity, as he provides Weberian-like \'ideal types\' for the comprehension of the racial-political landscape.Hughey, Matthew W. (forthcoming 2010). \'Navigating the (Dis)similarities of White Racial Identities: The Conceptual Framework of "Hegemonic Whiteness."\'Ethnic & Racial Studies.In this work, I build upon many of the aforementioned studies. Like Pamela Perry (2002) I dive into two ethnographic sites, but of much different breed. To interrogate how whiteness might be akin to \'vapor and ice\' (Duster 2001) and to provide a robust answer to the dilemma of the \'long-term staying power of white privilege\' (McDermott and Samson 2005) alongside the \'political crisis\' of whiteness (Winant 2004), I studied a white nationalist and white antiracist organization. Combining over fourteen months of field observations, in-depth interviews, and content analysis of documents, I found that the varied political and overt ideological orientations of both groups masked striking similarities in how both groups made meaning of whiteness. In particular, these similarities were guided by a collective reliance on reactionary, racist, and essentialist scripts, latent worldviews \xe2\x80\x93 and like Wray (2006) \xe2\x80\x93 symbolic boundaries. The realization that there remains a shared \'groupness\' to outwardly different white identities has the potential to destabilize the recent trend that over-emphasizes white heterogeneity at the expense of discussion of power, racism, and discrimination. As a resolution to this analytic dilemma, this article advances a conceptual framework entitled \'hegemonic whiteness.\' In this model, white racial identity formation is understood as an ongoing process in which (1) racist, reactionary, and essentialist ideologies are used to demarcate inter-racial boundaries and (2) performances of white racial identity that fail to meet those ideals are marginalized and stigmatized, thereby creating intra-racial distinctions within the category \'white.\'White supremacy & nationalismDobratz, Betty A. and Stephanie L. Shanks-Meile 1997. The White Separatist Movement in the United States: \'White Power, White Pride!\' Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press.This is a good place to begin with the study of the white separatist, nationalist, and supremacist movements in the United States. The book is primarily descriptive and quickly debunks the stereotype that the movement is tied to an uneducated and Southern cadre of disenfranchised men. The authors interviewed more than 125 white separatists, attended white power rallies and other white separatist meetings, and examined much of the movement-generated literature. A major strength of the text is the demonstration of key divisions within the white supremacist movement, most notably religious ideology and views toward gender. However, this high note is often bookended by their overdependence on journalistic-like description rather than sociological explanation.Zeskind, Leonard. 2009. Blood and Politics: The History of the White Nationalist Movement from the Margins to the Mainstream. New York, NY: Farrar Straus Giroux.This book is a critical companion to Dobratz and Shanks-Meile (1997). Beginning in the 1950s and taking the reader into the contemporary moment, the text affords a sprawling account of the shifting currents in white nationalism. In both meticulous detail and incredible breadth, the 645-page tome was composed from Zeskind\'s 15-year-long research of the white nationalist movement \xe2\x80\x93 describing in detail how the movement has somewhat successfully moved from the shadows of a stigmatized racist identity to wear the mask of a more \'button-down\' and gentile white nationalism.Ferber, Abby L. 1998. White Man Falling: Race, Gender, and White Supremacy. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, Inc.Abby Ferber does an excellent job of illuminating white nationalist publications like White Patriot and White Power to clarify not only the racial, but the intersectional weltanschauung of white male nationalists. In so doing, Ferber demonstrates how the concept of \'race\' has evolved alongside the development of the white supremacist and nationalist movements. Ferber\'s empirically based critique unpacks the still-growing ideological assertion that white men are now the quintessential victims of the social order, and she convincingly demonstrates the repercussions of their attempts to re-assert white male power. I would be remiss if I did not also point the reader to her follow-up study: Home-Grown Hate: Gender and Organized Racism (New York, NY: Routledge, 2004). Other notable mentions in this vein include Kathleen Blee\'s Inside Organized Racism: Women in the Hate Movement (Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 2002) and Jessie Daniels\'White Lies: Race, Class, Gender, and Sexuality in White Supremacist Discourse (New York, NY: Routledge, 1997).Berbrier, Mitch 2000. \'The Victim Ideology of White Supremacists and White Separatists in the United States.\'Sociological Focus\xc2\xa033: 174\xe2\x80\x9391.In much the same vein as Ferber, Mitch Berbrier demonstrates how white victimization ideologies are a growing, but not yet central, facet of white supremacist and separatist organizing. Rather, discourses of racial victimization are put to the service of larger concerns in white supremacist activism: for example, either to activate a sense of urgency in the perceived loss of white racial pride and self-esteem, or to convince outsiders (and potential members) that they are living in time of white \'genocide.\' I also recommend Berbrier\'s 1998 Social Problems article entitled \'"Half the Battle": Cultural Resonance, Framing Processes, and Ethnic Affectations in Contemporary White Separatist Rhetoric.\'White antiracismBonnett, Alastair 2000. Anti-Racism. London and New York, NY: Routledge.This is a valuable text for those wishing to understand both the historical trajectory of, and current variation within, the antiracist movement. Bonnett first traces anti-racism\'s philosophical historicity through thinkers such as Comte, Montaigne, and Du Bois. After delineating the theoretical underpinnings of the movement, Bonnett then outlines the spatial variation of antiracism to uncover the networked relationships between Brazil, China, France, the US, and the UK, to name just a few examples. In this vein, while the text does not explicitly focus on white anti-racism, a large portion of the book directly challenges the dominance of the Eurocentric variations of anti-racism, as it even briefly surveys the outgrowths of anti-racism in the form of multiculturalism, anti-Nazi/anti-fascist movements, and the \'local\' activist organizations that purport to represent marginalized communities. While the book takes on a large subject matter, its relatively small size often falls short of giving each subject the attention it deserves. Still, the book serves as an excellent overview.Apthecker, Herbert 1993. Anti-Racism in U.S. History: The First Two Hundred Years. Westport, CT: Praeger Publishers.Like Bonnett\'s text (2000), this book does not explicitly center on white antiracism, but much of the examples used by the late Marxist historian are drawn from white abolitionists and activists. In fact, recovering the lost history of whites whom rejected racist rationales for the \'peculiar institution\' of slavery and in turn, evidenced a remarkable degree of racial egalitarianism, appears the impetus for Aptheker\'s decision to compose the book. Overall, the text remains a tour de force of the pervasiveness of both white racism and its white resistance, as it covers the intersection of racism, sexuality, labor, the political ideologies of Gr\xc3\xa9goire, Banneker, & Jefferson, religion, the effects of the civil war, and emancipation.Srivastava, Sarita 2005. \'"You\'re Calling me a Racist?" The Moral and Emotional Regulation of Antiracism and Feminism.\'Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society\xc2\xa031(1): 29\xe2\x80\x9362.This article demonstrates how the dominant practices and discourses of emotional expression shape antiracist debates over what constitutes a proper antiracist approach. By showing how the predominant mode of discussion in many antiracist organizations is hinged to the disclosure of personal experiences and emotion, Srivastrava demonstrates that this mode constricts the ability to produce organizational or structural change. Accordingly, white antiracist discussion groups often devolve into a setting in which the focus shifts from fighting racism to that of quelling the emotional turbulence of white participants \xe2\x80\x93 a pattern that unintentionally reestablishes a focus on white well-being and privilege.Niemonen, Jack June 2007. \'Antiracist Education in Theory and Practice: A Critical Assessment.\'The American Sociologist\xc2\xa038(2): 159\xe2\x80\x9377.With critical aplomb, Jack Niemonen interrogates the pedagogical, curricular, and organizational claims of \'antiracist education\'\xe2\x80\x93 an endeavor largely tied to liberal, white, and \'multicultural advocates.\' Operationalized through a study of approximately 160 papers recently published in peer-reviewed journals, Niemonen finds that the dominant forms of \'antiracist education\' are far from sociologically grounded, empirically based accounts of the significance of race, but \'embodies the confessional and redemptive modes common in evangelical Protestantism\' (164). Picking up on a key contradiction endemic to a large percentage of white antiracist literature, whites are often framed as \'inherently racist\' yet are prodded to constantly seek paths to redemption and salvation. Informing my own work, Niemonen demonstrates how antiracist educators often employ a myopic and reductionist \'culture war\' view of the world in which battle lines are drawn between the \'good and bad\' whites. Aside from the fact that Niemonen\'s scathing critique sometimes borders on a kind of evangelicalism in its own right, his overview of the literature does afford the prescient observation that a great deal of antiracist activism is built on abstract moralism rather than sociological empiricism.O\'Brien, Eileen 2001. Whites Confront Racism: Antiracists and Their Paths to Action. New York, NY: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, Inc.O\'Brien\'s work is a survey of white antiracist activists from across North America. The book is a nice counterpoint to Niemonen\'s (2007) findings, as O\'Brien finds that many white antiracists are quite savvy in their ability to avoid the typical options of \'being a nonracist\' or devolving into emotional turmoil associated with \'white guilt\'; many of the whites demonstrate large variation in how they combat modern racism. Of import, O\'Brien shows that these whites\' affiliations with antiracist organizations \xe2\x80\x93 and even their lack thereof \xe2\x80\x93 can play a crucial role in their approach to their antiracist activism. As such, O\'Brien shows that a more critical white antiracist approach is evolving; one that frames race as a \'social construction\' and which unpacks the individual, institutional, and cultural forms of racism.Online materialsPublic Broadcasting Service, \'Race \xe2\x80\x93 The Power of an Illusion\'http://www.pbs.org/race/000_General/000_00-Home.htmStarting from the supposition that \'Race is one topic where we all think we\'re experts\', the series, readings, video, and ability to directly ask questions of experts in the field (e.g.: historian George M. Fredrickson and biological anthropologist Alan Goodman) together help to debunk many of the core beliefs that undergird the modern white supremacist and nationalist movement. In so doing, the program helps to show how social, economic, and political conditions, rather than biological make-up, disproportionately channel advantages and opportunities to whites.Public Broadcasting Service, \'From Swastika to Jim Crow\'http://www.pbs.org/itvs/fromswastikatojimcrow/index.htmlThe website includes a video, discussion guide, and multi-chaptered narrative on the little-known story of German refugee scholars, who were expelled from Nazi Germany, migrated to the United States south and faced oppression from US white supremacists, and found employment at historically black colleges and universities. The resources therein illuminate the intricate web of politics, migration, nationalism, the contextual construction of racial and ethnic identity, and racism & antiracism.\'Racism Review\'http://www.racismreview.com/blog/Launched in 2007, \'Racism Review\' is produced and maintained by Joe R. Feagin (Texas A&M University) and Jessie Daniels (CUNY-Hunter College). Contributors to the blog are scholars and researchers from sociology and a number of other social science disciplines across North America. Many of the articles center on the topics of white racial identity, racism, and antiracism, and aim to serve as credible and reliable sources of information for journalists, students, and members of the general public who seek evidence-based research and analysis.Southern Poverty Law Centerhttp://www.splcenter.org/index.jspThe Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) was founded in 1971 as a small civil rights law firm, and today the website for the SPLC is internationally known as a clearing-house for critical information, and perspectives on, white supremacist and white nationalist groups.Sample syllabus\'Sociological Perspectives on Whiteness\'Overview of the courseThis course investigates the social construction of race through an exploration of white identity, both theoretically and empirically. It includes an investigation of the historical genesis of white identity, its intersection with political movements and organizations, the relation of whiteness to race, ethnicity, class, gender, nation, and how whiteness is understood in popular culture, and the sociological mechanisms by which it is reproduced, negotiated, and contested.Lecture 1 \xe2\x80\x93 Introduction to Race as a Social ConstructionHaney L\xc3\xb3pez, Ian F. 1998. \'Chance, Context, and Choice in the Social Construction of Race.\' Pp. 9\xe2\x80\x9316 in The Latino/a Condition: A Critical Reader, edited by Richard Delgado and Jean Stefancic. New York, NY: New York University Press.Urciuoli, Bonnie 1996. \'Racialization and Language.\' Pp. 15\xe2\x80\x9340 in Exposing Prejudice: Puerto Rican Experiences of Language, Race, and Class. Boulder, CO: Westview Press.Duster, Troy 2001. \'The \'Morphing\' Properties of Whiteness.\' Pp. 113\xe2\x80\x93133 in The Making and Unmaking of Whiteness, edited by E. B. Rasmussen, E. Klinenberg, I. J. Nexica and M. Wray. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.Lipsitz, George 1998. \'The Possessive Investment in Whiteness.\' Pp. 1\xe2\x80\x9323 in The Possessive Investment in Whiteness: How White People Profit from Identity Politics. Philadelphia, PA: Temple University Press.Lecture 4 \xe2\x80\x93 The Creation of \'White Ethnics\'Jacobson, Matthew Frye 2001. \'Becoming Caucasian: Vicissitudes of Whiteness in American Politics and Culture.\'Identities\xc2\xa08(1): 83\xe2\x80\x93104.Roediger, David R. 1994. \'Whiteness and Ethnicity in the History of "White Ethnics" in the United States.\' Pp 181\xe2\x80\x93198 in Towards the Abolition of Whiteness. New York, NY: Verso.Sacks, Karen Brodkin 1994. \'How did Jews Become White Folks?\' Pp 78\xe2\x80\x93102 in Race, edited by Steven Gregory and Roger Sanjek. New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press.Roediger, David R. 1999. \'Irish-American Workers and White Racial Formation in the Antebellum United States.\' Pp 133\xe2\x80\x93163 in The Wages of Whiteness: Race and the Making of the American Working Class. New York, NY: Verso.Lecture 6 \xe2\x80\x93 Colorlessness and Color-blindness as a Defense of WhitenessAnsell, Amy E. and James M. Statman 1999. \'"I Never Owned Slaves:" The Euro-American Construction of the Racialized Other.\'Research in Politics and Society\xc2\xa06: 151\xe2\x80\x9373.Gallagher, Charles A. 2003. \'Playing the White Ethnic Card: Using Ethnic Identity to Deny Contemporary Racism.\' Pp. 145\xe2\x80\x93158 in White Out: The Continuing Significance of Racism, edited by Ashley Doane and Eduardo Bonilla-Silva. New York, NY: Routledge Press.Bonilla-Silva, Eduardo. 2003. \'The Central Frames of Color-Blind Racism.\' Pp. 25\xe2\x80\x9352 in Racism Without Racists. New York, NY: Rowman and Littlefield.Lecture 7 \xe2\x80\x93 Learning WhitenessConley, Dalton. 2001. \'Universal Freckle, or How I Learned to Be White.\' Pp. 25\xe2\x80\x9342 in The Making and Unmaking of Whiteness, edited by Birgit Brander Rasmussen, Eric Klinenberg, Irene J. Nexica, and Matt Wray. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.Giroux, Henry A. 1998. \'Youth, Memory Work, and the Racial Politics of Whiteness.\' Pp 123\xe2\x80\x9336 in White Reign: Deploying Whiteness in America, edited by Joe L. Kincheloe, Shirley R. Steinberg, and Nelson M. Rodriguez, and Ronald E. Chennault. New York, NY: St. Martin\'s Press.Hall, Kim Q. 1999. \'My Father\'s Flag.\' Pp. 29\xe2\x80\x9335 in Whiteness: Feminist Philosophical Reflections, edited by Chris J. Cuomo and Kim Q. Hall. New York, NY: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, Inc.Williams, Patricia J. 1997. \'The Ethnic Scarring of American Whiteness.\' Pp. 253\xe2\x80\x9363 in The House that Race Built: Black Americans, U.S. Terrain, edited by Wahneema Lubiano. New York, NY: Pantheon Books.Lecture 12 \xe2\x80\x93 Whiteness in Popular Culture and Everyday LifeDeloria, Philip 1999. Playing Indian. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.Hughey, Matthew W. 2009. \'Cinethetic Racism: White Redemption and Black Stereotypes in "Magical Negro" Films.\'Social Problems\xc2\xa056(3): 543\xe2\x80\x9377.Lott, Eric 1995. Love and Theft: Blackface Minstrelsy and the American Working Class. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.Lecture 13 \xe2\x80\x93 White Privilege and the Future of White PeopleHaney L\xc3\xb3pez, Ian F. 1998. \'Choosing the Future.\' Pp. 404\xe2\x80\x937 in The Latino/a Condition: A Critical Reader, edited by Richard Delgado and Jean Stefancic. New York, NY: New York University Press.Winant, Howard 2001. \'White Racial Projects.\' Pp 97\xe2\x80\x93112 in The Making and Unmaking of Whiteness, edited by Birgit Brander Rasmussen, Eric Klinenberg, Irene J. Nexica, and Matt Wray. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.West, Cornel 1997. \'I\'m Ofay, You\'re Ofay: A Conversation with Noel Ignatiev and William "Upski" Wimsatt.\'Transition\xc2\xa073(7): 176\xe2\x80\x9398.Y\xc3\xbadice, George 1995. \'Neither Impugning nor Disavowing Whiteness Does a Viable Politics Make: The Limits of Identity Politics.\' Pp. 255\xe2\x80\x9385 in After Political Correctness: The Humanities and Society in the 1990s, edited by Christopher Newfield and Ronald Strickland. Boulder, CO: Westview Press.[The construction of this syllabus is indebted to Bethany Bryson (James Madison University), Wende E. Marshall (University of Virginia), and Jennifer Roth-Gordon (Brown University)]']
['Ridge, Mia', 'From Tagging to Theorizing: Deepening Engagement with Cultural Heritage through Crowdsourcing', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Crowdsourcing, or "obtaining information or services by soliciting input from a large number of people," is becoming known for the impressive productivity of projects that ask the public to help transcribe, describe, locate, or categorize cultural heritage resources. This essay argues that crowdsourcing projects can also be a powerful platform for audience engagement with museums, offering truly deep and valuable connection with cultural heritage through online collaboration around shared goals or resources. It includes examples of well-designed crowdsourcing projects that provide platforms for deepening involvement with citizen history and citizen science; useful definitions of "engagement"; and evidence for why some activities help audiences interact with heritage and scientific material. It discusses projects with committed participants and considers the role of communities of participants in engaging participants more deeply.']
['H\xc3\xbcller, Thorsten', 'Playground or Democratisation? New Participatory Procedures at the European Commission', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "In the previous decade, the European Commission has promoted direct citizen involvement in European Union (EU) affairs via institutions such as deliberative polls, citizen conferences, online consultations or citizens' initiatives. Do these instruments foster EU democratisation? In this article, the Commission's participatory turn is re-constructed. Against the yardstick of a democracy theoretical framework, two participatory instruments (European Citizens' Consultations and the Commission's online consultations) are assessed. Both instruments are seriously flawed: the ECC cannot resolve the trade-off between demanding and egalitarian participation, and remains almost unrecognised outside the forum (bridging problem). Online consultations suffer both from a lack of active participation and of the symbolic accountability of the Commission to the contributions of ordinary citizens."]
['Gauja, Anika', 'The Individualisation of Party Politics: The Impact of Changing Internal Decision-Making Processes on Policy Development and Citizen Engagement', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "This article\n\n* Applies the theoretical framework of 'individualisation' to political parties and policy participation.\n\n* Suggests a new model of policy development in social democratic parties where increased prominence is given to ordinary citizens and supporters.\n\n* Presents illustrative case studies of new forms of policy participation, including community consultations and online forums in the UK Labour Party and the Australian Labor Party.\n\n* Assesses the implications of individualisation on political parties as sites for policy-making, participation and representation.\nThis article examines the changing nature of the connection between citizens, party members and elites in the creation of party policy through the theoretical prism of individualisation. Using qualitative case studies of recent policy-making initiatives in the Australian Labor Party and the UK Labour Party, the article develops a new model of policy transferal that is not built upon the mass-party model of parliamentary politics, but rather upon organisational evolutions such as community consultations, online participation and supporters' networks. These evolutions, or reforms, typically emphasise the individuality of policy-making and accountability, promote new technologies for facilitating decision-making, and attempt to engage with a new style of politically active citizen. Each of these developments carries implications for how political parties facilitate participation, accountability and responsiveness in modern forms of representative democracy."]
['L\xc3\xbcders, Marika and F\xc3\xb8lstad, Asbj\xc3\xb8rn and Waldal, Espen', 'Expectations and Experiences With MyLabourParty: From Right to Know to Right to Participate?', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Social media are often argued to change political communication, decreasing the distance between politicians and citizens, and increasing citizens' influence on policymaking. This paper presents findings from a study of how the Norwegian Labour Party uses social media, focusing on the community platform MyLabourParty. Interviews with politicians and a survey with citizens as respondents were conducted to examine the experiences of online political discussions. Findings show that citizens and politicians expect MyLabourParty to strengthen citizen participation. Yet, citizens still experience communication asymmetry and politicians may find it challenging to participate to the extent citizens expect. Means for bridging the gap between expectations and experiences are called for, in particular redefinition of the offering, changes of user-practices, and system improvements."]
['Ellis, Rowan', '"A World Class City of Your Own!": Civic Governmentality in Chennai, India', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Abstract:\xc2\xa0 This paper utilizes a critical governmentality approach to theorize the processes through which urban elites become stakeholders in the "world-class city". Through a case study of public consultations for urban development plans in Chennai, India, the paper explores the technologies that produce urban actors who "participate" in urban governance. Key to these technologies is a discourse of participation that privileges and normalizes citizens as urban stakeholders. The paper contributes to current explorations into the technologies of inclusion that are central to an emerging civic governmentality in South Asia. In Chennai this civic governmentality engages various segments of civil society in processes of urban governance through the mechanism of public consultation. It is through these public consultations that elites come to exert influence over urban plans and consolidate a vision and desire for the world-class city.']
['Russo, Antonio Paolo and Tatjer, Laura Capel', 'Teaching and Learning Guide for: From Citadels of Education to Cartier Latins (and Back?): The Changing Landscapes of Student Populations in European Cities', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "This guide accompanies the following article: Antonio Paolo Russo and Laura Capel Tatjer, 'From Citadels of Education to Cartier Latins (and Back?): The Changing Landscapes of Student Populations in European Cities', Geography Compass 1 (2007): 1160\xe2\x80\x931189, doi: 10.1111/j.1749-8198.2007.00056.xAuthors' IntroductionThis article introduces a research theme that is gaining ground in the urban studies literature. The broader context is that of urban development in the age of mobility [defined as a new methodological paradigm in social sciences in recent works by John Urry (See for instance: Sheller, M. and J. Urry (2006). The new mobilities paradigm. Environment and Planning A 38 (2): 207\xe2\x80\x93226; and Urry, J. (2007). Mobilities. Cambridge: Polity Press.)].Among the many forces shaping the development of the economic and social fabric of cities, universities are possibly the most important. Not only because academies produce knowledge, which is the main input for the contemporary information-based service economy, one that is strongly urban in nature, but also because universities draw to cities large and varied student communities, and increasingly so, as student mobility booms across the world. In general, this is now seen as a highly desirable thing, due to the 'turn' in local politics towards the attraction of talent and the nurturing of creative lifestyles.Cities thus develop as 'temporary playgrounds' where students not only study and learn, but also perform their peculiar cultural and social life, establishing a rupture with traditional citizenships based on work and permanent residence. They undergo studentification, in the sense of an urban landscape progressively shaped by the practices of students, that is accompanied by more or less overt policy initiatives to accommodate this dynamism as a source of gains to specific sectors of the community (real estate companies, to start with).However, studentification also poses a series of urban management problems, especially in relation to other user groups. This is best analysed making reference to the historical evolution of student settlements, which tend to follow a distinct pattern, framed by the type and location of campus facilities and by changes in the value structure in the city. The end result could be suboptimal, to the extent that the influence of students on the urban economy is underplayed and the conflicts with the local population are maximised.In this article, we propose a simplified 'model' for this evolution and address the problems and policies that should steer this development towards a better integration of students in the social and economic fabric of the city. We use the two cases of Barcelona and Lille, cities that have been thriving from the emergence of distinct student landscapes in their recent regeneration, as exemplary illustrations of that development and of mistakes and wise decisions in policy-making.Author Recommends1. Allinson, J. (2006). Over-educated, over-exuberant and over here? The impact of students on cities. Planning, Practice and Research 21 (1), pp. 79\xe2\x80\x9394, doi: 10.1080/02697450600901541This article represents a broad analysis of the development of higher education in the UK and of the implications at the local level. It discusses how UK cities have come to absorb the increase in student populations (almost doubled to 1.2 million in the decade of the 1990s as a result of lifelong education policies) in specific urban areas where they produced major impacts, mostly presented in negative terms. It so does by investigating the reasons for the 'clustering' of students in certain areas of cities, considering the impacts of studentification on the 'indigenous population' of these areas and discussing the implications for the general vitality of those cities.2. Hubbard, P. (2008). Regulating the social impacts of studentification: a Loughborough case study. Environment and Planning A 40 (2), pp. 323\xe2\x80\x93341, doi: 10.1068/a396This paper defines studentification as a process by which specific neighbourhoods become dominated by student residential occupation. Outlining the causes and consequences of this process, this paper suggests that studentification raises important questions about community cohesiveness and that intervention may be required by local authorities if social and cultural conflicts are to be avoided. Detailing the social impacts of studentification in Loughborough, a market town in the English East Midlands, the paper accordingly considers recent housing policies designed to prevent the formation of exclusive 'student ghettos'. The paper concludes by suggesting that the relationship between students and the wider community requires differentiated responses in terms of regulation if town\xe2\x80\x93university tensions are to be effectively managed. The paper also compares the Loughborough case with other UK university towns where the challenges and opportunities associated with studentification have been differently addressed.3. Chatterton, P. (1999). University students and city centres \xe2\x80\x93 the formation of exclusive geographies. The case of Bristol, UK. Geoforum 30, pp. 117\xe2\x80\x93133, doi:10.1016/S0016-7185(98)00028-1This paper analyses critically the presence of students in city centres and the internal articulation of this cohort, the power forces that are responsible for attracting them into cities and developing student-oriented landscapes, and the forms of exclusion and conflict with original urban functions that result from this development. It especially focuses on infrastructure connected to the middle-class students' social activity, which adds up to 'segregating' post-modern trajectories of British (and in general Western) cities. The approach is critical because for this author the 'studentification' of cities is vested in the public discourse as a positive, desirable move towards a creative economy. The study is based on a case study of Bristol city centre.4. Felsenstein, D. (1996). The university in the metropolitan arena: impacts and public policy implications. Urban Studies 33 (9), pp. 1565\xe2\x80\x931580, doi: 10.1080/0042098966501Among many other similar research-based papers, this is possibly the most comprehensive study of the economic impacts of universities in metropolitan areas, as it takes into consideration both expenditure generated by the academic community and knowledge-related linkages. These impacts can have either positive or negative signs and can operate in both the short and long terms. The article uses a case study of the impacts of Northwestern University on the Chicago metropolitan area. The analysis emphasises the magnitude of the university expenditure links with the metropolitan economy and the importance of scale when comparing these with more localised negative impacts. It then discusses some public policy implications, centred on the role of the university as a non-profit organisation competing with local businesses and as an export base sector in the metropolitan economy.5. Florida, R. (2003). Cities and the creative class. City & Community 1 (2), pp. 3\xe2\x80\x9319, doi: 10.1111/1540-6040.00034The main persona behind the increasingly popular \xe2\x80\x93 and frequently criticised \xe2\x80\x93'creative class' concept moves in this paper from the definition and characterisation of this grouping of symbolic mediators and producers, seen as the backbone of (and paradigmatic asset for) urban development in the information age, to the strategies that cities should deploy to attract and retain these human resources, ranging from investments in infrastructure and symbolic capital to softer interventions to strengthen knowledge assets (including top higher education facilities), city image, communication style and integration programmes, to be delivered by coalitions of public and private stakeholders.6. Hall, P. (1997). The University and the City. GeoJournal 41 (4), pp. 301\xe2\x80\x93309, doi 10.1023/A:1006806727397In this article, one of the most celebrated scholars in urban studies discusses the historical evolution and the existing models of university campuses as an economic booster for cities and regions. It so does by examining a number of exemplary cases of campus development in various areas of the world and in different periods, and focusing on the role of technical and vocational universities. It then analyses the new challenges facing university planning at the beginning of the information age.7. Martinotti, G. (1997). Perceiving, conceiving, achieving the sustainable city. Synthesis report. Dublin: European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions.This work by the Italian urban sociologist is an extract of his most famous work (only published in Italian) Metropolis. In his works, urbanisation is conceived as the progressive superimposition in the urban space of populations characterised by different ties with place and different space\xe2\x80\x93time patterns in its use. The 'third-generation metropolis' hosts various population groups: the sedentary original residents plus commuting workers, immigrant workers and students, tourists and global business travellers, characterised by increasing levels of mobility and transience in the city, and a different power to mould the values and images of urban landscapes according to their specific performances and lifestyles, sometimes generating conflict and exclusion. The sustainable city is one that manages to accommodate such diversity, building bridges between such groups and deriving strengths from their coexistence.8. Russo, A. P., van den Berg, L. and Lavanga, M. (2007). Towards a sustainable relationship between city and university: a stakeholdership approach. Journal of Planning Education and Research 27 (2), pp. 199\xe2\x80\x93216, doi: 10.1177/0739456X07307208This article focuses on the relations between the main actors behind the economic dynamics of the triple helix: universities, enterprises and government, and on the urban policies that could fine-tune their local interests. It does so by adopting a stakeholders' approach: academies, firms and governments are embodied by communities (respectively the body of lecturers and especially students, entrepreneurs and workers, and original residents) that establish various ties with place and transactions between them. The paper looks into the balance that should be achieved in their search of an 'optimum' in their citizenship, accounting for differences in their ties with place and survival strategies, and into the reasons for which this balance could be hampered, and so collective benefits from their collaboration missed. It then proposes a number of policy initiatives that aim at redressing such balance and achieve a knowledge-based economy more solidly rooted to place.9. Russo, A. P. and Arias Sans, A. (2009). Student communities and landscapes of creativity: how Venice \xe2\x80\x93'the world's most touristed city'\xe2\x80\x93 is changing. European Urban and Regional Studies 16 (2), pp. 175\xe2\x80\x93189, doi: 10.1177/0969776409102189This third article co-authored by A. P. Russo focuses on students as active agents in cultural production, enhancing the attractiveness of urban areas where they settle for empathic cultural consumers. This is a particularly relevant issue for heritage cities, as most historical university cities around Europe, and especially Venice, the case study treated in this paper. In this city, where mass-tourism landscapes, residential spaces and student settlements have historically been spatially and temporally segregated, increased student mass is now producing a new dynamics for which some cultural tourists become patrons of student-oriented activities, breaking up with the spatial and behavioural model of mass tourism. The paper generalises arguing that 'unbranded' creative actors are strategically important for the regeneration of mass-tourism enclaves and argues that in order to stabilise this process, residence and citizenship issues need to be solved.Cities, Universities and Urban Development: Topics for elaboration and discussion1. The role of universities in urban developmentRef.: Hall 1997; Felsenstein 1995\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82What are the main economic impacts of universities in cities? What types of linkages should be considered in this estimation?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82What are the most desirable models of campus development and orientation of academies in order to boost the economic impacts of universities?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82What are the relative adavantages/disadvantages of small-sized, historical city centres in capturing the full range of economic effects from higher education?2. Students and academic communities in the information ageRef.: Martinotti 1997; Florida 2003\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82Can you characterise students as a homogeneous or 'urban population'? What are their main characteristics regarding the spatial and time aspects of their use of the city, differentiating them from other user groups?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82Are student populations internally differentiated? Can you identify three main groups of higher education students with different characteristics regarding their relationship with place and their behavioural pattern in cities?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82Could all higher education students be considered part of the 'creative class'? What is their relation with other representatives of the creative class (like symbolic producers and mediators)? What can cities do attract, manage and retain talented students?3. Patterns and impacts of studentificationRef.: Russo and Tatjer 2007; Allinson 2006; Hubbard 2008\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82In which areas of the city do students tend to cluster, especially in relation with the location of campus facilities? Can you observe regular patterns in your city/region? Is there an historical evolution in this pattern over the last decades?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82Where do students gather and socialise? How could you describe 'student activity areas' of your city/region in terms of cost, image, accessibility, openness to other urban actors, centrality in public policy and planning initiatives?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82What is the public perception of those areas? Are local residents welcoming or resisting this 'colonisation'? Is the local government reacting by hindering student concentration, of favouring it, and through what policy initiatives?4. Studentships, student identities and performancesRef.: Chatterton 1999; Russo and Arias Sans 2009\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82Can you describe the main identitarian elements of being a university student in your city/region? Is the student community mixed (racially and by class) or segregated? Does it 'blend in' with the local population in similar age groups? Are there evident gender differences to that respect? Do students participate in local public (e.g. political, associational) life?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82What could be the attitudes of the locals with respect to student areas? Are student areas considered 'trendy', 'exclusive' or 'rowdy' by the locals?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82How does student activity (both academic and social) affect the city economy and especially that of the areas more densely populated by the student community? Can you observe evident phenomena of property and commodities' price increases or slumps in areas which are 'taken over' by student populations in your city/regions? Did that imply an inflow/outflow of local residents?5. Urban management for a sustainable university-city relationshipRef.: Russo, van den Berg and Lavanga 2007; Felsenstein 2005; Florida 2003; Hubbard, 2008\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82Should cities favour/hinder the clustering of student activities and campus development in specific parts of the city, according to different urban structures?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82What are the main policy initiatives that could be taken at the local/regional level to connect more closely universities with the local economy?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82Could/should students be the object of specific policy initiatives by the local government? How can they be led to integrate more closely with the local community?Online Resourceshttp://www.bbc.co.uk/insideout/eastmidlands/series5/students_behaviour.shtmlA BBC reportage on the studentification and town\xe2\x80\x93gown conflicts in East Midland cities like Loughborough, with plenty of testimonials given by students and residents, and a readers' forum.http://www.traveldodo.com/tag/student/A travel website (as many others) with a young audience orientation, providing recommendations of good places for a foreign study experience, based on the readers' accounts. Notably, these places are advertised as 'cool city with a university and great facilities for students like nightclubs, cheap bars, friendly locals and best low budget accommodation' (quality of university being seemingly, the least important issue in this list). An example of new gatekeepers of studentification, based on the Web 2.0 concept?http://www.birminghamliveandlearn.co.uk/Institutional promotion of Birmingham as a student city. 'Bars, clubs and attractions' are always at the forefront. 'Live' in general is given much more emphasis (included graphically) than 'learn'.http://www.manchester.ac.uk/undergraduate/ourreputation/thestudentcity/A similar (but stylistically very different) web of the University of Manchester. And very politically correct too: in Manchester you easily get both the Kosher food and the Halal food.http://www.habitatgejove.com/webv2c/en/index.htmThis website is much used in the Barcelona's student community. It works like a clearing house between supply and demand of private accommodation in the city, providing guarantees to students and to landlords. Access to this service is restricted to registered students and protects them against the competition of the tourist letting market."]
['Lesley\nWood', "Teaching and Learning Guide for: 'Securitizing America: Strategic Incapacitation and the Policing of Protest Since the 11 September 2011 Terrorist attacks'", 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Author's introduction\nPeople participate in social movements and protest events in part to pressure elites and institutions to alter the reward structure within society. When attempting to pressure their targets, activists are often confronted by the state. Whether the state is a target of protest or not, it oftentimes engages those seeking to promote extra-institutional change. Within democratic societies, police are charged to maintain social order and protect the rights of those expressing dissent. Because of this dual charge and a variety of political, social, and economic factors, police have adopted strategies or repertoires of social control for policing protests. These repertoires can facilitate, channel, or prevent protest from occurring. A growing scholarly consensus suggests that since the 1990s, authorities in the United States and other democratic states have shifted how they react to protests. Until the 1970s, police often utilized what scholars call the 'escalated force' protest control repertoire. During this era, police saw protest as an illegitimate form of political expression. They placed a low priority on freedom of speech and assembly and often used excessive force and widespread arrests when dealing with protesters. In the 1970s to 1990s, police developed what is called 'negotiated management' to respond less confrontationally to protesters. This repertoire relied on a permitting process to facilitate police and protester efforts to negotiate the time, place, and manner of protest activities in ways satisfactory to both protesters and police. Police placed a premium on protecting freedom of speech and assembly and tolerated community inconveniences related to large rallies, marches, and the occasional staged arrest. They used violence and arrests as a last resort and only for significant violations of the law. However, following the disruptive 1999 Seattle WTO protests and the new cycle of global protests that followed, law enforcement agencies around the United States and in other western democracies began developing and adopting the 'strategic incapacitation' repertoire of protest control. With strategic incapacitation, police selectively protect civil liberties and selectively tolerate community disruption, and they seek to incapacitate protests through the use of less-lethal weapons and preemptive arrests, extensive control of public space, reliance on 'new surveillance' technologies, and the elaborate control of information. In the United States, the development and adoption of this new style of policing accelerated after the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks as authorities embraced a risk management approach to identify and neutralize potentially disruptive events, such as large demonstrations.\nAuthor recommended books and edited volumes\n\n\nauthor = {\nBoykoff, Jules"]
['Talpin, Julien and Wojcik, St\xc3\xa9phanie', 'Deliberating Environmental Policy Issues: Comparing the Learning Potential of Online and Face-To-Face Discussions on Climate Change', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "To what extent is political participation deepened and enriched by the Internet? Is the Internet more inclusive\xe2\x80\x94especially towards the young\xe2\x80\x94than traditional forms of participation requiring physical contact? Do people learn more by discussing on the Internet\xe2\x80\x94and especially in online political forums\xe2\x80\x94than by deliberating face-to-face? We aim to answer these questions by presenting the results of research based on the observation of a deliberative experience that allowed both online and face-to-face participation, namely the IDEAL-EU project, carried out by the Tuscany (Italy), Catalonia (Spain), and Poitou-Charentes (France) regions. IDEAL-EU was aimed at involving young people\xe2\x80\x94between ages 14 and 30\xe2\x80\x94to discuss the issue of climate change in order to produce a report to be handed to the President of the European Parliament Commission on Climate Change. It first consisted in online discussion forums, and then in an electronic town meeting organized in the three regions' capitals in November 2008. This town meeting involved both keypad voting and face-to-face discussions in small groups. The comparison of these two stages of the experience allows evaluation of the respective effects of online and face-to-face political discussions on young participants' political knowledge. Using content analysis of websites, direct observation of the assembly, and interviews and questionnaires completed by both online and assembly participants, we evaluate the respective effects of these different forms of civic engagement for actors' perceived level of knowledge on climate change and on their political competence more generally."]
['Knobloch, Katherine R. and Gastil, John', 'Civic (Re)socialisation: The Educative Effects of Deliberative Participation', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "This article examines the subjective experience of cognitive and behavioural change following public deliberation in two different nations. It examines short- and long-term survey data from two highly structured deliberative forums \xe2\x80\x93 the 2009 Australian Citizens' Parliament and the 2010 Oregon Citizens' Initiative Review. Results showed increases in reported deliberative and internal efficacy, some measures of external efficacy, and communicative and community-based engagement, though participants rarely reported increases in institutionalised political participation. Participants in an online process in Australia reported limited increases in their internal and external efficacy and communicative engagement. These findings suggest that well-structured deliberative governance can transform the meaning and practice of citizenship."]
['Whitmarsh, Lorraine and Swartling, \xc3\x85sa Gerger and J\xc3\xa4ger, Jill', 'Participation of experts and non-experts in a sustainability assessment of mobility', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'The complexity, ambiguity and subjectivity that surround persistent problems of unsustainability, such as mobility, highlight the importance of stakeholder engagement in both knowledge production and policy development. This paper reports on research within the EU-funded MATISSE project to develop tools and methods for Integrated Sustainability Assessment (ISA), a novel interdisciplinary and participatory approach to sustainability strategy development. Two different methods \xe2\x80\x93 expert focus groups and citizen deliberative workshops \xe2\x80\x93 were employed to elicit knowledge and preferences of European stakeholders in respect of sustainable mobility. Findings from these exercises indicate areas of both convergence and divergence in the visions of sustainable mobility futures depicted by different stakeholder groups. Stakeholders agreed on the need to address problems of unsustainability in the transport sector, and identified broadly similar environmental, social and economic criteria for sustainable transport. Amenity of transport was more important for citizens, while experts focussed on pragmatic and technological issues. Both groups favoured modal shift and novel technologies, and citizens also supported demand reduction measures and choices; however, a range of barriers to achieving sustainable mobility was also identified by participants. Stakeholder feedback suggests the process was valuable and acted as a forum for social learning and the co-production of knowledge by citizens and experts, while at the same time empowering these groups to participate in an important social issue such as transport. The value and limitations of these methods for ISA are discussed and avenues for further research proposed. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and ERP Environment.']
['Mallett, Alexandra', 'Technology cooperation for sustainable energy: a review of pathways', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Policy makers, practitioners and academics agree that addressing climate change requires global efforts and that one pillar of any effective approach must include actions undertaken by developing countries. A key mechanism in which developing countries can be engaged is through collaboration to elicit more use of sustainable energy technologies in a region, organization, or community's energy portfolio. Approaches have tended to emphasize the role of the public and/or private sector. An alternative view has also emerged, termed as community approach, noting the absence of civil society actors in the predominant pathways that often characterize technology cooperation in developing countries. Local engagement is important, as it is often these players [whether local governments, community groups, and/or organizations (e.g. hospitals, schools)] who ultimately reap the benefits and/or bear the costs of these technologies. Recent emphasis centres on an enabling environment, recognizing the importance of creating markets for technology diffusion. Tackling the uptake of sustainable energy in a systematic way, emphasis is placed on policies, actors, and institutions. Building on these foundational frameworks, this paper scrutinizes actors and their relationships with a finer grain to better understand sustainable energy technology uptake. The notion is that sustainable energy technology use will increase with the active engagement of local players (earlier on, in a more meaningful way) in the technology cooperation process."]
['Gemen, R. and Breda, J. and Coutinho, D. and Fern\xc3\xa1ndez Celem\xc3\xadn, L. and Khan, S. and Kugelberg, S. and Newton, R. and Rowe, G. and Str\xc3\xa4hle, M. and Timotijevic, L. and Urban, C. and Zolotonosa, M. and Hadwiger, K.', 'Stakeholder engagement in food and health innovation research programming \xe2\x80\x93 key learnings and policy recommendations from the INPROFOOD project', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Europe recognises the need for technological innovation along with the importance of bridging the gap between science and society. The European Commission has developed a strategy to foster public engagement and a sustained two-way dialogue between science and civil society, and has set up a framework for Responsible Research and Innovation. The EU-funded project INPROFOOD aimed to find new ways to establish dialogue and mutual learning among stakeholders meant to inform subsequent work and future initiatives towards Responsible Research and Innovation. More specifically, INPROFOOD aimed to: (1) increase understanding of the landscapes of food and health innovation research programming; (2) adapt, test and evaluate the application of different stakeholder engagement methods to the area of food and health innovation research programming, which included European Awareness Scenario Workshops, PlayDecide games and an Open Space conference; and (3) to develop an action plan to progress towards Responsible Research and Innovation in this domain. The latter entailed a so-called Mobilisation and Mutual Learning Action Plan, which lays down a concrete framework for inclusive stakeholder involvement at different stages of the research and innovation process, with tangible key actions in five priority areas.']
['Brion-Meisels, Linda and Brion-Meisels, Steven', 'Peace Education across Cultures: Applications of the Peaceable Schools Framework in the West Bank', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Since 1992, the authors have worked with a diverse group of U.S.-based teachers and community workers who have developed and used a comprehensive framework to promote and sustain peaceable schools and communities. The framework draws on European, African heritage, Latino, and Native American traditions, but our applications have mostly been within U.S. contexts. In this article, we describe what we learned while using the framework with Palestinian colleagues during an 18-month collaboration. Funded by the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID) with the goal of "cultivating an environment of tolerance, dialogue and civic engagement in Palestinian and Israeli schools," Seeds of Peace contracted with Peace First to lead a series of workshops for Palestinian educators; Peace First worked with Lesley University faculty to provide teacher training support. The contract for this project did not include cross-border issues or collaborations; the workshops focused on communication, critical thinking, respect for diversity and dispute resolution/classroom management. Although the project focused on practice, it also included a small research component\xe2\x80\x94designed to test the usefulness of the Peaceable Schools and Communities framework in a new context. In this article, we review the framework and research that helped guide our work, summarize what we learned, and provide some follow-up information. We suggest connections to broader peace education in the region, but we do not address broader regional issues. We close with recommendations about how U.S.-based peace education models might be successfully applied and re-shaped for work in new cultural contexts.']
['Hosio, Simo and Goncalves, Jorge and Kostakos, Vassilis and Riekki, Jukka', 'Crowdsourcing Public Opinion Using Urban Pervasive Technologies: Lessons From Real-Life Experiments in Oulu', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'The civic potential of pervasive computing technologies has been increasingly explored within academic and urban planning communities. One vision is of communities and cities enriched with pervasive computing, where citizens can leverage the new technology and interfaces for their own purposes, and at the same time be empowered to be heard through the use of such technology. This article reports lessons learned from a project that created public human interfaces for interacting with city officials in Oulu, Finland. We focus on civic engagement and reflect on a deployment of public interactive crowdsourcing technologies that are openly available to everyone, right in the heart of the city. The series of field trials reported here involve public displays, mobile phones, and Internet technologies. We find differences in the performance of different kinds of input mechanisms, and present lessons learned from cooperating with officials in a joint civic engagement effort.']
['Bicquelet, Aude and Weale, Albert', 'Coping with the Cornucopia: Can Text Mining Help Handle the Data Deluge in Public Policy Analysis?', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Information and communication technologies such as the Internet have created a plethora of opportunities for the participation of citizens in policymaking. In the United Kingdom, for instance, this trend has emerged at national and local levels, in domains as diverse as Education, the Environment and Health Care. Given a general renewal of interest in incorporating public opinion into policymaking, devices such as online consultations and electronic surveys have rendered the appeal to 'the people' seemingly easier. But an important problem arising from involving the public in decision-making exercises through large-scale electronic participatory devices is the amount of textual data generated. Although there is now a large body of literature devoted to commentating and analysing ways in which politicians ought to be involved in listening and responding to public participation in decision-making, issues pertaining to the implementation of such exercises in the light of the volume of information that they produce have largely remained unexplored. In this paper, we assess the potential benefits and shortcomings of using Text Mining methods for the analysis of large-scale consultations submitted via Internet. To this end, the paper reports on the application of computer-aided text analysis to a public consultation organised by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) in 2008 on 'End of Life Medicines'."]
['Clark, Benjamin Y. and Brudney, Jeffrey L. and Jang, Sung-Gheel', 'Coproduction of Government Services and the New Information Technology: Investigating the Distributional Biases', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "This article investigates how communications advances affect citizens' ability to participate in coproduction of government services. The authors analyze service requests made to the City of Boston during a one-year period from 2010 to 2011 and, using geospatial analysis and negative binomial regression, investigate possible disparities by race, education, and income in making service requests. The findings reveal little concern that 311 systems (nonemergency call centers) may benefit one racial group over another; however, there is some indication that Hispanics may use these systems less as requests move from call centers to the Internet and smartphones. Consistent with prior research, the findings show that poorer neighborhoods are less likely to take advantage of 311 service, with the notable exception of smartphone utilization. The implications for citizen participation in coproduction and bridging the digital divide are discussed."]
['Liu, Na and Zhang, Xinzhi', 'The Influence of Group Communication, Government\xe2\x80\x93Citizen Interaction, and Perceived Importance of New Media on Online Political Discussion', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Online political discussion is a growing form of political behavior and plays an important role in political deliberation in the new media age. This article examines "daily talk" as a type of political deliberation, and emphasizes two overlooked factors that influence online political discussion: direct government\xe2\x80\x93citizen interactions and perceptions of the importance of new media for online political discussion. It also examines the moderation effects of perceived importance of new media on group communication and government\xe2\x80\x93citizen interaction. Survey data analysis from the 2008 Civic Engagement survey from the Pew Internet & American Life Project (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892,251) reveals that citizens\' interactions with both members of their political group and government officials have positive influences on the frequency of online political discussion. Meanwhile, the association between online political discussion and online group communication becomes stronger when one perceives that new media are less important as source of political information. The theoretical and policy implications of the findings are discussed.']
['Mazur, Dennis J.', "Teaching & Learning Guide for: Full Disclosure of the 'Raw Data' of Research on Humans: Citizens' Rights, Product Manufacturers' Obligations and the Quality of the Scientific Database", 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This guide accompanies the following article(s): \'Full Disclosure of the "Raw Data" of Research on Humans: Citizens\' Rights, Product Manufacturer\'s Obligations and the Quality of the Scientific Database.\'Philosophy Compass 6/2 (2011): 90\xe2\x80\x9399. doi: 10.1111/j.1747-9991.2010.00376.xAuthor\'s IntroductionSecuring consent (and informed consent) from patients and research study participants is a key concern in patient care and research on humans. Yet, the legal doctrines of consent and informed consent differ in their applications. In patient care, the judicial doctrines of consent and informed consent are disclosure doctrines based on the obligation of physicians to inform their patients of the following types of information: the nature of the procedure the physician is recommending in the patent\'s care (P), the alternatives to the physician-recommendation (A), and the risks of procedure and its alternatives (R). In addition, the physician must provide truthful answers to the patient\'s questions (Q) to the best of the physician\'s abilities. In research on humans, the onus of disclosure by study sponsors and principal investigators is much greater than in patient care precisely because the purpose of research is not patient care. The purpose of research is the identification and development of new generalizable knowledge. Thus, participation in a research study or trial may not benefit the study volunteer at all. In addition, the participant may carry a heavy risk burden in relationship to any testing of a newly designed drug or device as part of their experiences in the research study. Presently, despite the risks borne by the research study participant, the raw data collected from volunteers in research trials are treated by courts as if they were the private property of the study sponsor rather than generally owed to the public as would be expected by an effort like research participation aimed at contributing to the development of generalizable knowledge. This paper reviews the obligations that study sponsors owe to their study participants based on the very definition of research as a systematic activity whose purpose is to develop generalizable knowledge to help all humans.Author RecommendsCourt casesCanterbury v. Spence, United States Court of Appeals, District of Columbia Circuit 464 F.2d 772 (1972). (Federal appellate decision heard in the District of Columbia, USA)Reibl v. Hughes, 2 S.C.R. 880 (1980). (Supreme Court of Canada)Rogers v. Whitaker, 175 C.L. R. 479 (1992). (High Court of Australia)Sidaway v. Board of Governors of the Bethlem Royal Hospital and the Maudsley Hospital and Others. 1 A.C. 871 (1985) (House of Lords)Canterbury v. Spence is the landmark Federal informed consent case in the United States heard in the District of Columbia. In this case, Judge Spottswood Robinson articulated the reasonable person standard of informed consent. This standard was subsequently adopted by the Supreme Court of Canada (Reibl v. Hughes, 2 S.C.R. 880 (1980)) and the High Court of Australia (Rogers v. Whitaker, 175 C.L. R. 479 (1992)). The House of Lords rejected the reasonable person standard in England in Sidaway v. Board of Governors of the Bethlem Royal Hospital and the Maudsley Hospital and Others. 1 A.C. 871 (1985).BookMazur, Dennis J. The Science and Ethics of Research on Humans. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2007.This book is a detailed guide for the review of scientific and ethical aspects of research on humans contained in the research study protocols and research informed consent forms which need to be submitted by study sponsors and principal investigators to institutional review boards (IRBs) for IRB review before a research study can receive approval to be conducted within a human study population in those institutions over which the IRB has authority. It also presents basic definitions in the area of research on humans and basic approaches to help conduct a deep review of the underlying scientific and ethical issues that are present within a research study protocol and its accompanying research informed consent form.ReportNational Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research. The Belmont Report: Ethical Guidelines for the Protection of Human Subjects of Research. Washington, DC: DHEW Publications, 1978 (78-0012).This U.S. National Commission in the Belmont Report argued for the necessity of a reasonable volunteer standard in research on humans in the United States. Arguing that the professional standard and the reasonable person standard of consent and informed consent were insufficient to base a disclosure standard in research on humans, this National Commission developed the reasonable volunteer standard where a study participant is to be approached in research informed consent with that information that a reasonable volunteer would want to know.Online MaterialsBelmont Report:<http://ohsr.od.nih.gov/guidelines/belmont.html>SyllabusTopics for Lecture and DiscussionWeek I: Introduction and OverviewReadings:Rogers v. Whitaker, 175 C.L.R. 479 (1992). (High Court of Australia)Sidaway v. Board of Governors of the Bethlem Royal Hospital and the Maudsley Hospital and Others. 1 A.C. 871 (1985) (House of Lords)Week II: The Different Standards of Consent and Informed ConsentReadings:Canterbury v. Spence, 464 F.2d 772 (1972). (Federal appellate opinion heard in the District of Columbia)Sidaway v. Board of Governors of the Bethlem Royal Hospital and the Maudsley Hospital and Others. 1 A.C. 871 (1985) (House of Lords)Week III: Definition of ResearchReading:Mazur, Dennis J. The Science and Ethics of Research on Humans. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2007. (Especially Chapters 2 and 3)Week IV: How to Review a Research Study Protocol and Research Informed Consent FormReading:Mazur, Dennis J. The Science and Ethics of Research on Humans. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2007. (Especially Chapters 4\xe2\x80\x936, 10, and 12\xe2\x80\x9314)Week V: Obligations in Research of Humans Versus Patient CareReading:National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research. The Belmont Report: Ethical Guidelines for the Protection of Human Subjects of Research. Washington, DC: DHEW Publications, 1978 (78-0012).Focus Questions\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82How do the judicial doctrines of consent in England and Australia compare to the judicial doctrines of informed consent in the United States and Canada?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82How does a professional standard of disclosure differ from a reasonable person standard of disclosure?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2What is the definition of research?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82How is a research study (study proposal and research informed consent form) reviewed from scientific and ethical bases for considerations of approval by an IRB?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82How do the obligations of a study sponsor, a principal investigator, and a research team conducting a research trial on human study participants differ from the obligations of a physician caring for a patient?\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82Should all raw data of research derived from humans be made available to the public for use in developing generalizable knowledge to help others, or should raw data be considered the private property of the study sponsors (for example, prescription drug manufacturers), who fund the research trials?Seminar/Project IdeaDraw a timeline of the development of the basic concepts of consent and informed consent in patient care and in patient research. On this timeline, first place the dates of the key court cases in England, the United States, Canada, and Australia on consent and informed consent. Then place the date of the development of the Belmont Report. Why do differences exist between these four countries in terms of the legal requirements of informedness of a patient (in medical care) and a study participant (in medical research)? What roles if any do the concepts of self-determination and self-decision have in consent and informed consent in patient care and in informed consent in research on humans among the four countries of interest? What are the realities of research on human participants that require a new standard of informed consent, the reasonable volunteer standard, to be developed beyond the two standards in patient care, the professional standard, and the reasonable person standard?Counterpoint ArgumentsThe following are counterpoint arguments that need to be appreciated to more fully understand the concepts that impact the thesis that \'raw data\' should be open to the public to allow the opportunity of checking of the results of its associated scientific paper and for further analysis.De-Identified (Anonymized) Raw DataA current approach to identifying (anonymizinig) raw data is based on the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 (P.L.104-191). HIPAA was enacted by the U.S. Congress in 1996 to keep a person\'s medical information private. In a research study, a person\'s private medical information can become research data. HIPAA\'s Privacy Rule allows a covered entity to de-identify data by removing all 18 elements that could be used to identify the individual or the individual\'s relatives, employers, or household members; these elements are enumerated in the Privacy Rule. The covered entity must also have no actual knowledge that the remaining information could be used alone or in combination with other information to identify the individual who is the subject of the information. Under this method, the identifiers that must be removed are the following:\n* 1\xe2\x80\x82Names.\n* 2\xe2\x80\x82All geographic subdivisions smaller than a state, including street address, city, county, precinct, ZIP Code, and their equivalent geographical codes, except for the initial three digits of a ZIP Code if, according to the current publicly available data from the Bureau of the Census:\n* \xe2\x80\x822a.The geographic unit formed by combining all ZIP Codes with the same three initial digits contains more than 20,000 people.\n* \xe2\x80\x822b.The initial three digits of a ZIP Code for all such geographic units containing 20,000 or fewer people are changed to 000.\n* 3\xe2\x80\x82All elements of dates (except year) for dates directly related to an individual, including birth date, admission date, discharge date, and date of death, and all ages over 89 and all elements of dates (including year) indicative of such age, except that such ages and elements may be aggregated into a single category of age 90 or older.\n* 4\xe2\x80\x82Telephone numbers.\n* 5\xe2\x80\x82Facsimile numbers.\n* 6\xe2\x80\x82Electronic mail addresses.\n* 7\xe2\x80\x82Social security numbers.\n* 8\xe2\x80\x82Medical record numbers.\n* 9\xe2\x80\x82Health plan beneficiary numbers.\n* 10\xe2\x80\x82Account numbers.\n* 11\xe2\x80\x82Certificate/license numbers.\n* 12\xe2\x80\x82Vehicle identifiers and serial numbers, including license plate numbers.\n* 13\xe2\x80\x82Device identifiers and serial numbers.\n* 14\xe2\x80\x82Web universal resource locators (URLs).\n* 15\xe2\x80\x82Internet protocol (IP) address numbers.\n* 16\xe2\x80\x82Biometric identifiers, including fingerprints and voiceprints.\n* 17\xe2\x80\x82Full-face photographic images and any comparable images.\n* 18\xe2\x80\x82Any other unique identifying number, characteristic, or code, unless otherwise permitted by the Privacy Rule for re-identification.Even though \'raw data\' can be de-identified (anonymized) so that there is no way to trace back the data to the study participant from which it was drawn, there are still questions whether the \'de-identified raw data\' can be given to other researchers or made public without the original study participant\'s approval. It may be the case that this approval could be done at the start of any research study where the individual considering study participation would be counseled on what the process of de-identification consists of and would be asked whether the participant would allow use of the data by other researchers or made available to the public in a de-identified state. However, there may be questions of the study participants as to whether the data are truly de-identified and untraceable back to the study participant since the participant would not be able to see the process actually being carried out in detail in all relevant circumstances.Using Raw Data in ContextSimply being in possession of raw data is never enough to build on that data from a research perspective. Researchers need to understand the context of the scientific research study in which the data were collected. This research context includes (but is not limited to): (i) the scientific hypothesis of the research study, (ii) the inclusion and exclusion criteria selected by the research designers of the study to determine which study participants were included and which were excluded from the study, (iii) the methods used to collect the data and possibilities of errors in the data collection processes, and (iv) answers to questions regarding whether any data were excluded from the study data and why these data were excluded.Ownership Rights Over DataThere are ownership rights over data. Ownership rights include court decision making related to the question which parties are to be considered as the owners of the data. Possible owners here include (but are not limited to) (i) the study sponsor whose only role was to fund that study, (ii) the principal investigator(s) who developed the scientific hypothesis, and (iii) individual study participants through special contracts made by individual participants who negotiate such contracts with study sponsors and principal investigators to share in the ownership of data. Examples of such data are participant sources of unique gene lines or unique cell lines to be used in future research.Objections to Data SharingFinally, individual researchers may simply object to sharing data. A researcher\'s arguments here may be simply stating that he or she has a right to fully analyze the data since the collection of the data was the researchers\' idea in the first place. These researchers may argue that they have the right to mine the data as fully as they can before deciding to make the data open to the public for others to analyze.Works Cited\n* Kaiser, J. \'Making Clinical Data Widely Available.\'Science 322.5899 (10 Oct. 2008): 217\xe2\x80\x938.\n* de Lusignan, S., J.F. Metsemakers, P. Houwink, V. Gunnarsdottir, and J. van der Lei. \'Routinely Collected General Practice Data: Goldmines for Research? A Report of the European Federation for Medical Informatics Primary Care Informatics Working Group (EFMI PCIWG) from MIE2006, Maastricht, The Netherlands.\'Informatics in Primary Care 14.3 (2006): 203\xe2\x80\x939.\n* Sim, I. \'Human Studies Database Project\', CTSA Data Repositories Symposium (17 Oct. 2008). 23 Nov. 2010 <http://www.ctsaweb.org/uploadedfiles/Human%20Studies%20Database%20and%20IDR.pdf>.\n* Sim, I., C.G. Chute, H. Lehmann, R. Nagarajan, M. Nahm, and R.H. Scheuermann. \'Keeping Raw Data in Context.\'Science 323.5915 (6 Feb. 2009): 713.\n* U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health, HIPAA Privacy Rule, Information for Researchers. 13 Nov. 2010 <http://privacyruleandresearch.nih.gov/pr_08.asp>.\n* Wilczynski, N.L., R.B. Haynes, and Hedges Team. \'EMBASE Search Strategies for Identifying Methodologically Sound Diagnostic Studies for Use by Clinicians and Researchers.\'BMC Medicine 29.3 (March 2005): 7.']
['Campbell, Scott W. and Kwak, Nojin', 'Political Involvement in "Mobilized" Society: The Interactive Relationships Among Mobile Communication, Network Characteristics, and Political Participation', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "In recent years, mobile communication has emerged as a channel for political discourse among network ties. Although some celebrate new possibilities for political life, others are concerned that it can lead to network insularity and political detachment. This study examined how mobile-mediated discourse with strong ties interacts with characteristics of those ties to predict levels of political participation. Findings revealed that mobile-based discourse is positively associated with political participation, but that this relationship is moderated by the size and heterogeneity of one's network. Participation increases with use of the technology in large networks of like-minded individuals, but declines with use of the technology in homogeneous networks that are small. Implications and future research considerations are offered in the discussion."]
['Restall, Gayle', 'Conceptualizing the outcomes of involving people who use mental health services in policy development', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Context\nInclusion of people who use mental health services in policymaking is a goal of many mental health systems. However, the outcomes of such involvement have not been well articulated or researched.\n\nObjectives\nThe objectives of this research were to explore how the social and personal outcomes of citizen-user involvement in mental health policymaking were conceptualized by policy actors and to create a conceptual framework to guide the development and evaluation of citizen-user involvement.\n\nDesign\nThis qualitative instrumental case study explored the phenomenon of citizen-user involvement using the policy field of mental health and social housing policy in the Province of Manitoba, Canada, as the focal case.\n\nParticipants\nA total of 21 informants from four policy actor groups, citizen-users, representatives of advocacy organizations, government officials and service providers, participated in key informant interviews. Data also included policy documents relevant to the policy field.\n\nAnalysis\nData collected from interviews and policy documents were analysed using an inductive qualitative paradigm.\n\nResults\nParticipants identified multiple outcomes of citizen-user involvement in policymaking. The resulting conceptual framework illustrated how outcomes in personal, substantive, instrumental and normative dimensions influence micro-, meso- and macrosocial structures. The results also provided a cautionary tale by suggesting how attention needs to be paid to managing the risks as well as optimizing the rewards of involvement.\n\nConclusions\nThe framework has application in guiding the development and evaluation of mechanisms that aim to involve citizen-users in policymaking. The framework encourages an approach that takes into account the complexity and multidimensional nature of engaging citizen-users.']
['Lenzi, Michela and Vieno, Alessio and Alto\xc3\xa8, Gianmarco and Scacchi, Luca and Perkins, Douglas D. and Zukauskiene, Rita and Santinello, Massimo', 'Can Facebook Informational Use Foster Adolescent Civic Engagement?', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'The findings on the association between Social Networking Sites and civic engagement are mixed. The present study aims to evaluate a theoretical model linking the informational use of Internet-based social media (specifically, Facebook) with civic competencies and intentions for future civic engagement, taking into account the mediating role of civic discussions with family and friends and sharing the news online. Participants were 114 Italian high school students aged 14\xe2\x80\x9317 years (57 % boys). Path analysis was used to evaluate the proposed theoretical model. Results showed that Facebook informational use was associated with higher levels of adolescent perceived competence for civic action, both directly and through the mediation of civic discussion with parents and friends (offline). Higher levels of civic competencies, then, were associated with a stronger intention to participate in the civic domain in the future. Our findings suggest that Facebook may provide adolescents with additional tools through which they can learn civic activities or develop the skills necessary to participate in the future.']
['Clifford, Valerie and Montgomery, Catherine', 'Challenging Conceptions of Western Higher Education and Promoting Graduates as Global Citizens', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Recently there has been a shift in the discourses of university policy from internationalisation towards the contested concept of global citizenship. This paper explores ways of challenging the current interpretation of international education policy through the concept of global citizenship drawing on the discussion forums of two cohorts of participants in an online course. The participants' responses illustrate ways they are rethinking the purpose of international higher education and the relevance of the concept of global citizenship. Whilst most participants whole-heartedly endorsed a more holistic view of higher education, several issues were raised, especially the fit of the ideal of global citizenship with a capitalist society and the Western heritage of the concept, which were perceived to be troublesome issues. Resistance to the inclusion of education for global citizenship was anticipated from institutions and disciplines, both heavily invested in the status quo. The academics' personal beliefs about higher education, and their willingness and potential to design and deliver curriculum for global citizenship were also prominent. Although universities are beginning to include the term global citizen in their policy documents the extent to which this might influence the goals and curricula of higher education is yet to be realised."]
['Khodr, Hiba', 'A Preliminary Comparative Study of Policy Making in Two GCC Countries\xe2\x80\x94Qatar and Kuwait: Processes, Politics, and Participants', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Drawing from extensive fieldwork and a rich literature on policy dynamics, I offer a preliminary comparative analysis of the policy process in Qatar and Kuwait focusing mainly on the participants. I assess the broad outlines of politics and power in decision-making processes in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) while suggesting means of making them more efficient, representative, and responsive to the needs of citizens. This is the first academic article investigating similarities and differences through a systematic analysis of the policy participants in these two countries and their role in the policy-making process; few studies analyze comparatively the dynamics of policy making in the GCC. Considering the emerging need for governments to develop and implement better processes and increase public participation in government decisions as the result of the Arab revolutions, this article provides recommendations for Qatar and Kuwait, with potential application in the region.']
['Nickolai, Daniel H. and Hoffman, Steve G. and Trautner, Mary Nell', "Teaching & Learning Guide for 'Can a Knowledge Sanctuary also be an Economic Engine? The Marketing of Higher Education as Institutional Boundary Work'", 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This guide accompanies the following article: Daniel H. Nickolai, Steve G. Hoffman, and Mary Nell Trautner. 2012. \'Can a Knowledge Sanctuary also be an Economic Engine? The Marketing of Higher Education as Institutional Boundary Work\', Sociology Compass 6(3):205\xe2\x80\x9318.Authors\' introductionThe marketing of higher education refers to a structural trend towards the adoption of market-oriented practices by colleges and universities. These organizational practices blur the boundary between knowledge-driven and profit-driven institutions, and create tensions and contradictions among the three missions of the 21st-century university: knowledge production, student learning, and satisfying the social charter. In this article, we highlight the historical contexts that nurtured the marketing of higher education in the US and Europe and explore the dilemmas that arise when market logics and business-oriented practices contradict traditional academic values. We demonstrate that managing these dilemmas is a contested process of policing borders as institutional actors struggle to delineate the proper role of the university in a shifting organizational climate.Authors recommendArum, Richard and Josipa Roksa. 2011. Academically Adrift: Limited Learning on College Campuses. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.A book that asks a fundamental question in higher education: "How much are students actually learning?" The results do not reflect well on the institution. Arum and Roksa conduct longitudinal tests of critical thinking and analytic reasoning skills on a cohort of students at a variety of universities and colleges. They find that a majority of respondents demonstrate little to no improvement in learning outcomes. Even students who improve show modest gains. The authors\' analysis of student surveys suggests that a major culprit is a combination of low rigor in the curriculum, a lack of effort among students, and the overly modest expectations of instructors.Barnett, Ronald. 2010. \'The Marketised University: Defending the Indefensible.\' Pp. 39\xe2\x80\x9351 in The Marketisation of Higher Education and the Student as Consumer, edited by M. Molesworth, R. Scullion and E. Nixon. New York: Routledge.Barnett suggests that debates about the effects of marketization on higher education often reflect pre-existing ideologies about the nature of markets in general. He presents numerous arguments in favor of the conception of students as consumers. For example, the increased power students receive in choosing where and from who to take classes may encourage accountability and actually improve the learning experience as students take a more active role in charting their own course through their education. Barnett also reminds readers that different institutions create different contexts and the extent to which market models of higher education are applicable are largely dependent on these different contexts.Berman, Elizabeth Popp. 2012. Creating the Market University: How Academic Science Became an Economic Engine. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.An in-depth historical sociology of the entrepreneurial university, this book explores when and why academic science become increasingly tethered to commercial interests over the last four decades. Berman focuses primarily on patenting trends and the political history of patenting law, as well as the development of biotech entrepreneurship and the emergence of university-industry incubators. She argues that the trend toward an entrepreneurial model were largely driven by the ideals of government officials about the importance of translating scientific and technological innovation into economic growth, along the way creating the organizational environment necessary to enable market-oriented research to flourish.Kleinman, Daniel Lee. 2003. Impure Cultures: University Biology and the World of Commerce. Madison, WI: University of Wisconsin Press.Kleinman provides an in-depth look into the daily work culture of a plant pathology lab at the University of Wisconsin. This participant observation study includes ambitious critiques of the dominant agency-oriented approaches within science and technology studies by focusing on issues of structural constraint and institutional power. This study is especially good at demonstrating how university biologists are deeply, athough indirectly, constrained by commercial interests. The influence is not easily found in conflicts of interest or day-by-day decision making of scientists, who by and large conduct themselves ethically and in the fashion predicted by Mertonian norms of science. Instead, the culture of commerce impacts an array of daily lab practices, including the baseline epistemological assumptions around what is a "significant" finding. In the world of plant pathology, a successful trial is determined in relation to the metrics established by the field\'s resource dependency on the agro-chemical industry.Leslie, Larry L. and Gary P. Johnson. 1974. \'The Market Model and Higher Education.\'The Journal of Higher Education 45:1\xe2\x80\x9320.This landmark article is among the first to interrogate the use of a market model as it applies to higher education. The authors trace several key legislative measures that altered federal funding practices and gave students discretion in choosing which schools would receive the most funding. While the authors draw similarities between market practices and the process of funding higher education through students, they also question the extent to which a market model of higher education is applicable. Drawing a contrast between higher education funding practices and a perfectly competitive market model, they provide an important critique of a funding system still in use today.McMillan, Jill J. and George Cheney. 1996. \'The Student as Consumer: The Implications and Limitations of a Metaphor.\'Communication Education 45:1\xe2\x80\x9315.This article warns of the dangers involved in recasting students as consumers. McMillan and Cheney synthesize arguments about the traditional goals of education and how treating students as consumers can threaten traditional classroom relations and alienate students from the learning process. Implicit in their discussion is an argument for more traditional classroom approaches to fostering democratic citizenship skills through critical analysis and communal sharing of ideas. They explicitly reject the notion of education as a product (rather than a process) and the demand for professors to deliver the product in the most entertaining and efficient manner.Owen-Smith, Jason and Walter W. Powell. 2002. \'Standing on Shifting Terrain: Faculty Responses to the Transformation of Knowledge and Its Uses in the Life Sciences.\'Science Studies 15:3\xe2\x80\x9328.An interview-based study of 80 scientists from two university campuses, this paper provides a typology of faculty identities and research strategies at the nexus of academic and commercial research within the life sciences. The typology includes "old" and "new school" orientations to commercial research as well as hybrid categories somewhere between these two extremes, such as "engaged traditionalists" and "reluctant entrepreneurs." Eschewing simplistic analyses that either condemn or glorify the commercial engagements of academics, Owen-Smith and Powell point out that these various positions have created both novel fault lines and innovative research within the life sciences.Radder, Hans. 2010. The Commodification of Academic Research: Science and the Modern University. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh Press.This book is an edited collection of essays on the history, extent, and contemporary impacts of commodification on academic research in the US and Europe. Most of the essays converge at the intersection of science studies and research policy, but are written by an impressively eclectic group of authors pulled from philosophy, sociology, government studies, epidemiology, genomics, and bioethics.Vallas, Steven Peter and Daniel Lee Kleinman. 2008. \'Contradiction, Convergence and the Knowledge Economy: The Confluence of Academic and Commercial Biotechnology.\'Socio-Economic Review 6:283\xe2\x80\x93311.This is an interview-based study of biotech science that develops a theory of the "asymmetrical convergence" that characterizes the two sides of the university-industry relation. Vallas and Kleinman describe the work situations of university and commercial scientists to show that there has been a convergence of norms and practices across academic and corporate institutional domains. The authors show that the open discovery ideals of academic science have been increasingly integrated the entrepreneurial values and practices imported from the private sector. Simultaneously, commercial laboratories brought scientific practices and concepts into their workplaces. However, the convergence is asymmetrical, in the sense that both fields of practice are dominated by the profit motive and bottom-line economic development rather than the communal norms of public science.Online materialsResearch Commercialization and SBIR Centerhttp://center.ncet2.org/This web-based organization provides an online venue for faculty and students to take virtual workshops and webinars on how to engage in research capitalization and entrepreneurial training. The site includes a variety of resources for faculty and graduate students looking to transition into industry jobs. This site also provides researchers interested in the marketization of higher education a glimpse into a cottage industry that has emerged to provide training services for academics looking to capitalize their research and pedagogy.The Institute for Triple Helix Innovationhttp://www.triplehelixinstitute.org/thi/ithi_drupal/An organization focused on facilitating cross-sector (academia, industry, and government) collaborations in the production and dissemination of scientific research aimed at economic growth. Another example of a cottage industry established to promote research capitalization and professional networks aimed at knowledge transfer and research capitalization.Documentary, "College Inc." (2010)http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/collegeinc/This 55-minute video from PBS\' Frontline series examines the emergence of, demand for, and debates surrounding the consequences of for-profit universities such as the University of Phoenix. Available streaming online until October 19, 2012, thereafter only as DVD purchase. Supplemental materials on the College, Inc. webpage include: (1) a teaching guide with lesson plans, discussion questions, student handouts, and lesson extensions; (2) responses from the colleges and universities highlighted in the video; (3) articles, reports, and documents related to for-profit education; (4) transcripts of interviews conducted with numerous investors, reporters, lobbyists, and college presidents; and (5) a transcript and audiocast of the full program.Documentary, "Declining by Degrees: Higher Education at Risk" (2005)http://www.decliningbydegrees.org/This 120-minute video from PBS examines the impact of market forces in higher education, specifically discussing factors such as declining government support for public education, changes to student loan programs, the pressure to attract students, college rankings, and college sports. The documentary shows viewpoints from administrators, students, and faculty. A companion book is available for purchase through the program\'s webpage.Sample syllabusThe "Marketization of Higher Education" article can be successfully incorporated in several types of undergraduate and graduate courses, including Introductory Sociology, Sociology of Education, Organizations and Institutional Change, and Science and Technology.For introductory or education-focused courses, the article provides a succinct history of the relationship between higher education and the broader society while demonstrating how social institutions respond to social and cultural expectations/needs in different historical and national contexts. The article includes a short summary of the historical and contextual differences in the European and American models of higher education.For more advanced students of organizations, the article provides a case study demonstrating how macro level institutional changes influence organizational climate and social actors\' perceptions of their own work. Further, advanced or graduate seminars in education may choose to highlight the various debates about the role of (higher) education in an increasingly knowledge-based economy.Focus questions\n* 1\xe2\x80\x82Discuss examples of how market logics may have influenced your coursework, choice of classes, or commitment to a class.\n* 2\xe2\x80\x82What do you think about the informal economy and buying and selling course notes and study materials?\n* 3\xe2\x80\x82Discuss examples in which you put more or less effort into a class based on your perception of the course\'s bottom-line benefit to your post-graduation career and/or income.\n* 4\xe2\x80\x82How might the pressures faced by professors to bring in research funds from industry or venture capital influence their work and commitment to the classroom? In your experience, does this seem to be more common within those subject areas where knowledge capitalization is fairly common, such as biotech or computer science? Or, can we see the influence of knowledge capitalization in humanities or social sciences too?\n* 5\xe2\x80\x82To the extent that students have adopted an understanding of higher education as a commercial exchange, in which they are customers who pay for grades, etc., what might be some ways in which we could change that perception? What changes would faculty need to make in order to change student attitudes? Administrators? Students themselves?Seminar/Project ideasExploring Institutional BoundariesInterview a few other undergraduate students plus at least one faculty. Ask students questions such as why they decided to come to college, how they decided which college to attend, what they like and do not like about their college education, and what they hope to get out of their college experience. Ask faculty to provide their perspective on why they became a professor, what they like about their job and what they dislike, and what they see as the purpose of college and what students should get out of the college experience. In what ways do faculty and student perspectives converge, and how do they differ? Do any of the differences suggest blurring boundaries between missions of the university (knowledge production, student learning, and satisfying the social charter)?Marketization in Your College/UniversityDo a content analysis of official university admissions brochures, websites, and videos. What messages does the college want you to get from these materials? In what ways might the marketization of higher education be evident in such materials? If the university makes historical materials available, ask students to compare such materials over time to discern an increase in marketization, and how such processes are manifested. Do admissions materials for undergraduates and graduate students emphasize the same things? What differences do you note? Why do you think such differences do or do not exist?']
['Mort, Maggie and Roberts, Celia and Pols, Jeannette and Domenech, Miquel and Moser, Ingunn and The EFORTT investigators', 'Ethical implications of home telecare for older people: a framework derived from a multisited participative study', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Context\nTelecare and telehealth developments have recently attracted much attention in research and service development contexts, where their evaluation has predominantly concerned effectiveness and efficiency. Their social and ethical implications, in contrast, have received little scrutiny.\n\nObjective\nTo develop an ethical framework for telecare systems based on analysis of observations of telecare-in-use and citizens' panel deliberations.\n\nDesign\nEthnographic study (observation, work shadowing), interviews, older citizens' panels and a participative conference.\n\nSetting\nParticipants' homes, workplaces and familiar community venues in England, Spain, the Netherlands and Norway 2008\xe2\x80\x932011.\n\nResults\nOlder respondents expressed concerns that telecare might be used to replace face-to-face/hands-on care to cut costs. Citizens' panels strongly advocated ethical and social questions being considered in tandem with technical and policy developments. Older people are too often excluded from telecare system design, and installation is often wrongly seen as a one-off event. Some systems enhance self-care by increasing self-awareness, while others shift agency away from the older person, introducing new forms of dependency.\n\nConclusions\nTelecare has care limitations; it is not a solution, but a shift in networks of relations and responsibilities. Telecare cannot be meaningfully evaluated as an entity, but rather in the situated relations people and technologies create together. Characteristics of ethical telecare include on-going user/carer engagement in decision making about systems: in-home system evolution with feedback opportunities built into implementation. System design should be horizontal, 'two-way'/interactive rather than vertical or 'one-way'. An ethical framework for telecare has been developed from these conclusions (Table 1)."]
['Fisher, Justin and Van Heerde, Jennifer and Tucker, Andrew', 'Does One Trust Judgement Fit All? Linking Theory and Empirics', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Few questions in political science have received more attention in recent times than the role of trust in democracy, democratic government and political participation. In Britain this has become a particular concern as levels of democratic engagement in traditional politics have declined, exacerbated by media reports of politicians' untrustworthy behaviour. A common feature of previous empirical work on political trust is that trust is treated as a single theoretical concept. Scholars have assumed that trust operates in a similar fashion across different political institutions\xe2\x80\x94that citizens' trust mechanisms are the same for trusting parliament, the prime minister or the European Union. As a consequence, the operationalisation of trust has generally been through a single measure. In this article we draw on recent research from political theory, where different forms of judgements whether to trust\xe2\x80\x94strategic, moral and deliberative\xe2\x80\x94have been conceptualised, to argue that trust judgements may vary in application and significance depending upon the institution under examination. Using specially designed data sets generated from YouGov's weekly omnibus and the British Election Study's Continuous Monitoring Panel, we operationalise these three forms of trust judgements to examine trust in two British institutions\xe2\x80\x94political parties and politicians. We find, as hypothesised, that different forms of trust judgements are of differing significance depending upon the institution under consideration."]
['Bongiorno, Frank and Mansfield, Grant', 'Teaching & Learning Guide for: Whose War Was It Anyway? Some Australian Historians and the Great War', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Authors\' IntroductionThe article is an attempt to assess a body of historical and polemical writing on Australia\'s entry into the First World War. It also offers, from page 70 through to page 74, an alternative to the kind of understanding of Australian participation in the war with which we take issue elsewhere in the article. The piece was inspired by our engagement with the important writing of John Moses, who was for some years a valued colleague at the University of New England; in Frank\'s case, as a university lecturer teaching a course on War and Society in Twentieth-century Australia and a scholar with a long-standing interest in Australian historiography, and in Grant\'s, as a doctoral candidate being supervised by Frank and researching a thesis on Australian responses to the outbreak of the war. Grant, who was in the process of completing his thesis when we published this article, has since finished and is revising his work for publication. He also produced an earlier historiographical piece arising from his doctoral work : \'"Unbounded Enthusiasm": Australian Historians and the Outbreak of the Great War\', Australian Journal of Politics and History, 3/3 (September 2007): 360\xe2\x80\x9374.Like any piece of academic historical writing, our article represented an attempt to solve a \'problem\'. The \'problem\', as we saw it, was why a group of historians and political commentators had spent so many words contesting a view which they presented as mistaken historical orthodoxy, but which we were unable to find articulated in the major writings on Australia and the Great War with which we were familiar. The writers with whom we argued suggest that, contrary to the claims of radical-nationalist historians, the Great War was truly Australia\'s war, and one in which Australia\'s vital interests were at stake. Our purpose in writing our article was not to contest their particular claims about the national interest, but rather to interrogate aspects of their own methodology and assumptions, and to suggest an alternative. In particular, we argued that their work came out of a focus on \'high politics\' and diplomacy, and that a closer look at the contemporary discourse suggests greater complexity and ambiguity about the significance of the war for Australians. We suggested that it was wrong to impose a single meaning on Australian participation in the war derived from an understanding of diplomatic history, and that attempts to do so needed to be understood in the context of modern Australian conservative intellectuals\' affirmative attitude towards the nation\'s imperial inheritance.Authors Recommend:Here, we have included readings that are not dealt with in any detail or at all in our article. These come out of the tradition of social and cultural history or \'history from below\' that, we argue in our article, has been marginalised by the stress on high politics and diplomacy. Many of these historians are participants in those \'liveliest conversations\' to which we refer in our concluding paragraph.E. M. Andrews, The ANZAC Illusion (Melbourne: Cambridge University Press, 1992).An outstanding study of Anglo-Australian relations during the war. Andrews did not argue that Australia should not have been involved in the war, but rather that the extent and manner of Australian cooperation was not in Australia\'s interests. \'The Anzac Illusion\' to which he refers is the idea of the superiority of Australian soldiers to those from other parts of the British Empire, and the notion of a \'special relationship\' between Australia and the United Kingdom. Andrews explores the interests that these \'illusions\' actually served. His is a wide-ranging study that examines diplomatic, administrative, economic and social history. His eye catches topics as diverse as the organisation of the Australian Imperial Force, wheat sales, military discipline and British war brides.Peter Cochrane, Simpson and the Donkey: The Making of a Legend (Carlton: Melbourne University Press, 1992).A powerful examination of the legend of the Simpson, the Man with the Donkey at Gallipoli. Simpson became famous for carrying the wounded on the back of his donkey to safety, and his name became synonymous with selfless sacrifice, as well as a range of other qualities Australians like to associate with themselves and especially their soldiers. Cochrane attempts to separate the known facts about John Simpson Kirkpatrick\'s life from the uses to which his image was put during the First World War itself, and in the decades that followed. Like Andrews, Cochrane\'s is a \'critical\' history that seeks to contextualise the stories that some people have told about the war by exploring the purposes that they have tended to serve.Joy Damousi, The Labour of Loss: Mourning, Memory and Wartime Bereavement in Australia (Melbourne: Cambridge University Press, 1999).One of a new group of histories concerned with issues of memory and bereavement. Whereas books such as Ken Inglis\'s Sacred Places (see below) concentrate mainly on the public expression of community bereavement, Damousi is more concerned with writing a history of private emotions. At the same time, she examines how those who experienced private grief as a result of the war fared when they sought public recognition of their suffering. People\'s grief became the basis for a re-fashioning of their identity. The book examines both the world wars.J. N. I. Dawes and L. L. Robson, Citizen to Soldier: Australia before the Great War: Recollections of Members of the First A.I.F (Carlton: Melbourne University Press, 1977).An account of the generation that went to war in 1914\xe2\x80\x9318, based on interviews carried out with the men themselves. This book provides a useful indication of the motives of those who enlisted or, at the very least, how they recalled their motives in their old age. The drawing of this kind of distinction, and reflection on the way in which memories are made and re-made in the course of a single life, have become especially important in the increasingly sophisticated oral histories produced about Australia and the war (see Thomson, Anzac Memories, below).Raymond Evans, Loyalty and Disloyalty: Social Conflict on the Queensland Homefront, 1914\xe2\x80\x9318 (Sydney: Allen & Unwin, 1987).There are several regional or state-based studies of the Australian home-front experience of the war, and Raymond Evans\'s study of Queensland in among the best. Evans\'s book comes very much out of a left-wing critical tradition of writing about the war, in which there is a strong emphasis on its socially polarising, rather than unifying effects. Evans\'s argument is not that the war created such class, ethnic and ideological divisions \xe2\x80\x93 they were already fundamental to Queensland society \xe2\x80\x93 but that the stresses of war sharpened them, leading to violence and state repression of dissent.Stephen Garton, The Cost of War: Australians Return (Melbourne: Oxford University Press, 1996).A major study of the impact of three wars, the First World War, Second World War and Vietnam, on those who fought and returned, and the society to which they belonged. Like many recent Great War histories, Garton\'s explores the intersection of individual memory and experience with larger cultural patterns. He is especially concerned with the problems faced by returned men, such as mental trauma, physical disability and the difficulty of settling back into \'normal\' community life after the rupture caused by the war. He also examines the role played by governments and key professionals such as doctors in attempting to manage this complex process.K. S. Inglis, Sacred Places: War Memorials in the Australian Landscape (Carlton South: Melbourne University Press, 1999).One of the most important books written by any Australian on the experience of war, Sacred Places was the culmination of more than three decades of professional reflection by one of the country\'s leading historians on Australia\'s experience of the First World War. A detailed and beautifully written and illustrated study of Australian war memorials \xe2\x80\x93 from the nineteenth century through to the present \xe2\x80\x93 it is an exploration of the complex ways in which Australian communities expressed their grief and gratitude to those who had served the nation in war.Tanja Luckins, The Gates of Memory: Australian People\'s Experiences and Memories of Loss and the Great War (Fremantle, WA: Curtin University Books, 2004).Here is another contribution to the literature on memory and loss, a book that like those by Garton, Damousi and Scates, draws attention to the more personal and intimate aspects of the First World War experience for those left behind to grieve. For instance, Luckins includes an account of women\'s practice of wearing mourning black in memory of the fallen. In much of this recent cultural and social history, there has been a growing recognition of the ways in which the experience of war not only touched the lives of those left behind during the conflict itself, but continued long after the last shots were fired, as loss was reconstituted as memory. There is also an attempt in these histories to recover experiences that have been lost or neglected in histories with a traditional focus on battlefield sacrifice and national identity. Women\'s experiences, in particular, have been brought into clearer focus by historians such as Luckins.Jenny Macleod, Reconsidering Gallipoli (Manchester: Manchester University Press, 2004).Macleod\'s book is the first cultural history to set the Australian and British understandings of the Gallipoli campaign carefully alongside one another. Her interest is in the rather different ways in which the campaign has been recalled in the two societies. Macleod traces this process of cultural representation and memory back to the earliest descriptions of the campaign by war journalists such as Ellis Ashmead-Bartlett and C. E. W. Bean, through the Dardanelles Commission and accounts by Sir Ian Hamilton, as well as soldiers\' tales and the later historiography.L. L. Robson, The First A.I.F.: a study of its recruitment 1914\xe2\x80\x931918 (Carlton: Melbourne University Press, 1970).This book remains the standard account of the First AIF, although much work still remains to be done on the social history of this large body of men. Robson used both qualitative and quantitative techniques in building up a profile of the soldiers, an account of the efforts to recruit them, and the effects of the successes and failures of recruitment campaigns on Australian society and politics.Michael McKernan, The Australian People and the Great War (Nelson: West Melbourne, 1980).This is a pioneering social history. McKernan\'s focus is on the home front, where he examines a range of topics, from the experiences of women, country folk and German-Australians, through to the war\'s impact on the churches, schools and sporting activities. McKernan later produced a sequel on the Second World War.John McQuilton, Rural Australia and the Great War: from Tarrawingee to Tangambalanga (Carlton South, Vic.: Melbourne University Press, 2001).This book\'s scope is somewhat narrower than its title implies, for it is a regional study of north-eastern Victoria. It is nevertheless a significant social history by an accomplished rural historian, suggestive of the experiences of rural Australians more generally. Rural Australia and the Great War is very much a modern \'history from below\', in the Australian First World War historiographical tradition pioneered by the likes of Lloyd Robson, Bill Gammage and Michael McKernan. Indeed, McQuilton covers some of the same topics that featured in these histories, such as recruitment, conscription, schools, churches and the experiences of women and German-Australians, but in relation to a particular regional and rural context.Bruce Scates, Return to Gallipoli: Walking the Battlefields of the Great War (Melbourne: Cambridge University Press, 2006).Visiting Gallipoli or the Western Front as a tourist is now a common experience for many Australians, but Scates explores not only this recent phenomenon \xe2\x80\x93 via surveys and interviews \xe2\x80\x93 but the much longer history of battlefield pilgrimage from the 1920s. Return to Gallipoli is a contribution to the growing body of Australian historical literature on the history of the emotions and the memory of war. Moreover, like Ken Inglis\'s Sacred Places, this moving book explores the feelings that attach to place and the complexities faced by Australians whose daily lives continued so far away from the bodies of their loved ones.Graham Seal, Inventing ANZAC: the Digger and national mythology (St. Lucia, Qld.: University of Queensland Press in association with the API Network and Curtin University of Technology, 2004).There are many studies of the Anzac Legend as an aspect of national identity, but some scholars have been especially interested in the impact of the Great War experience on Australian popular culture. While there was an \'official\' culture of Anzac commemoration, there was also a more everyday, informal digger culture that emerged especially out of the stories that soldiers told one another, and the outside world, about their experiences. Graham Seal, a leading folklorist and social historian, examines this culture in its wartime and postwar manifestations, and the way in which it diverged from, yet also contributed to, the national myth that has grown up around Anzac.Alistair Thomson, Anzac Memories: Living with the Legend (Melbourne: Oxford University Press, 1994).Based on interviews with old diggers carried out in the 1980s, Thomson\'s study explores the relationship between the private memories of a number of returned soldiers, and the more public memorialising and mythologising that has accompanied Australia\'s experience of war. He discusses the difficulties and frustrations some of these men experienced when their own memories and understanding of the experience of being a soldier contradicted the authorised public memories.Online Materialshttp://www.awm.gov.au/The Australian War Memorial in CanberraThis is an outstanding Web site for Australian war history. For instance, the multi-volume Official Histories of Australia in the two world wars have been digitised and appear on this site. There is also the Journal of the Australian War Memorial, available online for all issues since 1996, as well as an encyclopaedia of Australians at war.http://www.naa.gov.au/The National Archives of AustraliaThis Web site contains a vast collection of records relating to Australia and the First World War, including service records of individuals. Some of its records are now available online in digital form. Fact Sheets for the First World War can be seen at: http://www.naa.gov.au/about-us/publications/fact-sheets/on-defence/index.aspx#section3http://www.firstworldwar.com/posters/australia.htmThe First World War.comThis site contains images of Australian World War I recruitment posters, which can be compared with those of other nations, also available on the site. This is part of a larger site devoted to the international history of the First World War.http://www.australiansatwar.gov.au/Australians at WarThis Web site is the companion to a television series on Australians at War that first appeared at the beginning of this century. The Web site contains text, pictures, sound and video clips, including reminiscences of people interviewed for the program.http://www.firstaif.info/anzac-book/The Anzac BookThere is a copy on this site of The Anzac Book (1916), edited by the Australian Official War Correspondent and Official Historian, C. E. W. Bean, and based on contributions from the men themselves. For a critique of the original text, see D. A. Kent, \'The Anzac Book and the Anzac Legend: C. E. W. Bean as Editor and Image-Maker\', Historical Studies, 21/84 (April 1985): 376\xe2\x80\x9390.Sample Syllabus:Australia and the First World War: Experience and MemoryWeek 1: \'She is Not Yet\': Warfare and Colonial AustraliaReadingTom Griffiths, \'The Frontier Fallen\', Eureka Street, 13/1 (March 2003): 24\xe2\x80\x9330.Robert Hyslop, \'War Scares in Australia in the Nineteenth Century\', Victorian Historical Journal, 47/1 (1976): 23\xe2\x80\x9344.K. S. Inglis, The Australian Colonists: An Exploration of Social History 1788\xe2\x80\x931870 (Carlton: Melbourne University Press, 1993), 250\xe2\x80\x9380.Week 2: Reahearsal? Australia and the South African War, 1899\xe2\x80\x931902ReadingC. N. Connolly, \'Class, Birthplace, Loyalty: Australian Attitudes to the Boer War\', Historical Studies, 18/71 (October 1978): 210\xe2\x80\x9332.C. N. Connolly, \'Manufacturing "Spontaneity": The Australian Offers of Troops for the Boer War\', Historical Studies, 18/70 (April 1978): 106\xe2\x80\x9317.K. S. Inglis, Sacred Places: War Memorials in the Australian Landscape (Carlton South: Melbourne University Press, 1999), ch. 2.Craig Wilcox, Australia\'s Boer War: The War in South Africa 1899\xe2\x80\x931902 (Melbourne: Oxford University Press, 2002), ch. 15.Week 3: Waiting for War, 1902\xe2\x80\x931914ReadingBob Birrell, Federation: The Secret Story (Potts Point, NSW: Duffy and Snellgrove, 2001), ch. 6\xe2\x80\x937.John Mordike, \'An Army for an Empire: Britain and Australia\'s Military Forces\', Journal of the Australian War Memorial, 9 (October 1986): 27\xe2\x80\x9338.Craig Wilcox, \'Relinquishing the Past: John Mordike\'s An Army for a Nation\', Australian Journal of Politics and History, 40/1 (1993): 52\xe2\x80\x9365.Week 4: Whose War Was It Anyway? Australia\'s Entry into the Great WarReadingFrank Bongiorno and Grant Mansfield, \'Whose War Was It Anyway? Some Australian Historians and the Great War\', History Compass, 6/1 (2008): 62\xe2\x80\x9390, doi: 10.1111/j.1478-0542.2007.00500.x.F. K. Crowley (ed.), Modern Australia in Documents 1901\xe2\x80\x931939, vol. 1 (Melbourne: Wren, 1973), 214\xe2\x80\x9333.Gerhard Fischer, \'"Negative Integration": And an Australian Road to Modernity: Interpreting the Australian Homefront Experience in World War I\', Australian Historical Studies, 26/104 (April 1995): 452\xe2\x80\x9376.John A. Moses, \'The "Ideas of 1914" in Germany and Australia: A Case of Conflicting Perceptions\', War & Society, 9/2 (October 1991): 61\xe2\x80\x9382.Jurgen Tampke and Peter Overlack, \'Documentation: Imperial Germany\'s Military Strategy in the South Pacific\', Australian Journal of Politics and History, 40/1 (1993): 98\xe2\x80\x93102.George Arnold Wood, \'The British and the German Empires: Two Opposing Cultures\', in John Anthony Moses (ed.), Prussian-German Militarism 1914\xe2\x80\x9318 in Australian Perspective: The Thought of George Arnold Wood (Bern: Peter Lang, 1991), 115\xe2\x80\x9318.Week 5: The Anzac Legend and Digger CultureReadingEllis Ashmead-Bartlett, Argus (Melbourne), 8 May 1915, in Harry Gordon (ed.), An Eyewitness History of Australia (Ringwood, Vic.: Penguin Books, 1988), 195\xe2\x80\x93200.C. E. W. Bean, The Story of Anzac: From the Outbreak of War to the End of the First Phase of the Gallipoli Campaign, May 4, 1915 (Sydney: Angus & Robertson Ltd., 1938), 605\xe2\x80\x937. (Official History of Australia in the War of 1914\xe2\x80\x9318, vol. 1)D. A. Kent, \'The Anzac Book and the Anzac Legend: C. E. W. Bean as Editor and Image-Maker\', Historical Studies, 21/84 (April 1985): 376\xe2\x80\x9390.Alistair Thomson, \'"Steadfast Until Death"? C. E. W. Bean and the Representation of Australian Military Manhood\', Australian Historical Studies, 23/93 (October 1989): 462\xe2\x80\x9378.Week 6: Women and the Great WarReadingJan Bassett, \'Ready to serve: Australian women in the Great War\', Journal of the Australian War Memorial, 2 (April 1983): 8\xe2\x80\x9316.Bruce Scates and Raelene Frances, Women and the Great War (Melbourne: Cambridge University Press, 1997), ch. 2.Michael McKernan, The Australian People and the Great War (West Melbourne: Nelson, 1980), 65\xe2\x80\x9393.Judith Smart, \'Feminists, Food and the Fair Price: The Cost of Living Demonstrations in Melbourne, August-September 1917\', Labour History, 50 (May 1986): 113\xe2\x80\x9331.Week 7: ConscriptionReadingJoy Damousi, \'Socialist Women and Gendered Space: The Anti-Conscription and Anti-War Campaigns of 1914\xe2\x80\x931918\', Labour History, 60 (May 1991): 1\xe2\x80\x9315.J. B. Hirst, \'Australian Defence and Conscription: A Reassessment (Part 1)\', Historical Studies, 25/101 (October 1993): 608\xe2\x80\x9327.J. M. Main, (ed.), Conscription: The Australian Debate, 1901\xe2\x80\x931970 (North Melbourne: Cassell, 1974), 49\xe2\x80\x9359, 83\xe2\x80\x934, 87\xe2\x80\x9392.L. L. Robson (ed.), Australia and the Great War 1914\xe2\x80\x931918 (South Melbourne: Macmillan, 1970), 73, 76, 98.Week 8: A Divided AustraliaReadingVerity Burgmann, \'The Iron Heel: The Suppression of the IWW during World War I\', in What Rough Beast? The State and Social Order in Australian History (Sydney: Sydney Labour History Group, 1982), 171\xe2\x80\x9391.R. J. W. Selleck, \'"The Trouble With My Looking Glass": A Study of the Attitude of Australians to Germans during the Great War\', Journal of Australian Studies, 6 (June 1980): 2\xe2\x80\x9325.Lucy Taksa, \'"Defence not Defiance": Social Protest and the NSW General Strike of 1917\', Labour History, 60 (May 1991): 16\xe2\x80\x9333.Week 9: The Costs of WarReadingJoanna Bourke, \'The Battle of the Limbs: Amputation, Artificial Limbs and the Great War in Australia\', Australian Historical Studies, 29/110 (April 1998): 49\xe2\x80\x9367.A. B. Facey, A Fortunate Life (Ringwood, Vic.: Penguin Books, 1985), ch. 58\xe2\x80\x9362.F. B. Smith, \'If Australia had not Participated in the Great War? An Essay on the Costs of War\', in Craig Wilcox assisted by Janice Aldridge, The Great War: Gains and Losses \xe2\x80\x93 Anzac and Empire (Canberra: The Australian War Memorial and The Australian National University, 1995), ch. 8.Week 10: RememberingReadingPeter Cochrane, Simpson and the Donkey: The Making of a Legend (Carlton: Melbourne University Press, 1992), ch. 1.Graeme Davison, \'The Habit of Commemoration and the Revival of Anzac Day\', ACH: Australian Cultural History, 22 (2003): 73\xe2\x80\x9382.Bruce Scates, \'In Gallipoli\'s Shadow: Pilgrimage, Memory, Mourning and the Great War\', Australian Historical Studies, 33/119 (April 2002): 1\xe2\x80\x9321.Focus Questions\n* 1How does the controversy over Australia\'s entry into the Great War illustrate E. H. Carr\'s idea of history as \'a continuous process of interaction between the historian and his facts, an unending dialogue between the present and the past\'? (E. H. Carr, What is History?, 2nd ed. (London: Penguin Books, 1990), 30)\n* 2Which kinds of evidence might be used for a study of Australians\' attitude to \xc2\xa0the outbreak of war in 1914?\n* 3Why did Australia go to war in 1914?\n* 4What does Australia\'s entry into the war reveal about its people\'s identity and \xc2\xa0sense of their place in the world in 1914?\n* 5In what ways is distance significant in explaining Australian attitudes to the \xc2\xa0war?Seminar/Project IdeaFor Undergraduate StudentsIndividual Project: Designing a World War I PosterIt is July 1915, the middle of a major recruitment drive, and your task is to design a recruitment poster to persuade young Australian men to enlist in the Australian Imperial Force. Give some thought to the kinds of appeal that you will make. In particular, consider such factors as nationalism, imperialism and masculinity.Once you have completed your poster, compare your effort to some actual Australian Great War recruitment posters. You will find some examples at http://www.firstworldwar.com/posters/australia.htm.What themes in your own poster are echoed in those from the First World War? Are there any themes in the World War I posters that you didn\'t consider? Are there themes in your own poster that don\'t occur in those on the Web site. Try to account for these differences.']
['Shulman, Stuart W', 'The Case Against Mass E-mails: Perverse Incentives and Low Quality Public Participation in U.S. Federal Rulemaking', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Large-scale e-mail campaigns are a staple in the modern environmental movement. Interest groups increasingly use online mobilizations as a way to raise awareness, money, and membership. There are legitimate political, economic, and organizational reasons for doing so, but these gains may come at the expense of a more substantial and efficacious role for citizens who wish to use e-mail to engage in public participation. This paper situates a close examination of the 1000 longest modified MoveOn. Org-generated e-mails sent to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) about its 2004 mercury rulemaking, in the broader context of online grassroots lobbying. The findings indicate that only a tiny portion of these public comments constitute potentially relevant new information for the EPA to consider. The vast majority of Move On comments are either exact duplicates of a two-sentence form letter, or they are variants of a small number of broad claims about the inadequacy of the proposed rule. This paper argues that norms, rules, and tools will emerge to deal with the burden imposed by these communications. More broadly, it raises doubts about the notion that online public participation is a harbinger of a more deliberative and democratic era.']
['Smith, Graham and John, Peter and Sturgis, Patrick', 'Taking Political Engagement Online: An Experimental Analysis of Asynchronous Discussion Forums', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'In this study we analyse the effect of participation in an online asynchronous discussion forum on the direction and magnitude of opinion change and policy preferences relating to youth antisocial behaviour among a large sample of online panel members. Panel members were randomly assigned to conditions that manipulated: (1) the amount of information about youth antisocial behaviour provided; and (2) the extent to which panel members were able to communicate with one another. We find that engagement in online discussion forums can lead to modest shifts in preferences among those who choose to contribute to the discussion. However, because those who choose to engage in this way are a small and self-selecting minority who make little use of background information, questions remain about the utility of online discussion forums as effective means of engaging citizens to generate informed inputs into the policy process.']
['Ganapati, Sukumar', 'Uses of Public Participation Geographic Information Systems Applications in E-Government', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Despite significant growth in public participation GIS (PPGIS) literature since the 1990s, little engagement by e-government scholars is evident in the extensive scholarly PPGIS debates. To fill this void, recent trends in PPGIS adoption by local governments are analyzed. Three waves of GIS are identified: desktop GIS, web GIS, and the Geospatial Web 2.0 platform. Such technological advancements have progressively eased GIS accessibility from expert users to ordinary citizens, accompanied by considerable growth in adopting PPGIS for traffic and transit, volunteered geographic information, and customer relationship management. However, limited use of PPGIS for higher levels of participation such as decision making is found. Barriers to PPGIS adoption for decision making seem less technological and more institutional.']
['Reilly, Ian and Boler, Megan', 'The Rally to Restore Sanity, Prepoliticization, and the Future of Politics', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This essay explores the significance of the 2010 Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear. Our analysis and discussion is grounded in findings from 40 interviews conducted at the rally on October 30, 2010, and in our close analyses of news coverage published between September 2010 and February 2011, online discussions from Comedy Central fan forums, the Rally to Restore Sanity Facebook site, and Twitter. We argue for the importance of understanding "prepoliticization" as a key phase of contemporary politics, particularly within a mediated public sphere such as this one. The Rally offers unique insight into how the convergence of entertainment and politics gives rise to new modes of civic participation, particularly for citizens who do not see themselves as "political."']
['Khanna, Akshay and Mani, Priyashri and Patterson, Zachary and Pantazidou, Maro and Shqerat, Maysa', "The Changing Faces of Citizen Action: A Mapping Study through an 'Unruly' Lens", 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Changing faces of citizen action:For the activist, the academic interested in power and politics, the development practitioner and the engaged citizen, the last couple of years or so have offered a veritable treasure of moments with which to re-imagine the world, and the place of the 'citizen' in it, the relationships between rulers and the ruled, and the very meaning of 'democracy'. In this context this working paper develops an approach based on thinking at the IDS about 'Unruly Politics', a framework that offers new ways to understand and engage politics and political action. 'Unruly Politics' is a broad conceptual space rather than a descriptive or nominal category. Broadly, it is an approach that looks at politics beyond what has conventionally been defined as 'politics', institutionally and formally. It is simultaneously the insistence on new languages of politics, the redefinition of spaces of politics, ruptures in the aesthetic regimes of power, and the creation of imaginaries of power beyond what is already intelligible.This publication is constituted of 5 pieces in conversation with each other. The first piece, the main paper, brings together theoretical approaches from philosophy, anthropology and activism with four case studies \xe2\x80\x93 the Egyptian uprising as one part of the 'Arab Spring', the protests in Greece, the hunger-strike that sparked off an anti-corruption movement in India, and the more diffuse context of the role of Information and Communication Technologies such as mobile phones and internet platforms in citizen action. The paper examines new modalities of political action being generated in these contexts and argues that current approaches to citizen action, (approaches concerned either with the relationship between citizens and state apparatus, or identity related collective action) characterised by the assumptions of that politics relates to 'interests', or 'representation', fail to appreciate the potential of these emergent modalities. The paper also asks whether the framework of 'citizenship' is adequate for understanding these modalities, whether 'conscious engagement' or explicit ideological interpretation of action is necessary to constitute it as political, how we might understand the role of ICTs in these emergences, the role of the 'bare life' in generating unruly political action and the usefulness of the notion of 'Event' in understanding the changing face of citizen action. The main paper concludes with a discussion on the cynical deployment of discourse in politics, and argues that several of the recent events might be seen as generating the possibilities of a politics that is not cynical.Main paper is followed by three essays written by academics, activists and development practitioners in response to the main paper. Sonia Correa, Shahrukh Alam and Ute Seela each engage the paper from different locations, contesting claims and examining implications of the arguments therein, providing insights from their own locations and perspectives. The final piece of the publication is a response to these essays, highlighting the directions of thought and practice that these engagements open up, clarifying particular points and making some final provocations."]
['Huisman, Carla', 'Displacement Through Participation', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Citizen participation is often regarded as a means to increase local democracy. Seldom is participation viewed as a means to legitimate disruptive practices of states. However, participation can become a tool for the effective implementation of policy rather than a means to enhance justice, if no power is transferred to citizens. Displacement in Amsterdam is a case in point. Here the local council together with housing corporations yearly forces over 2,000 households to leave their houses, a consequence of an ambitious policy of state-led gentrification. Following Foucault, I explore the rationalities and techniques employed to ensure compliance. The promise of influence lures tenants into lengthy discussions with power holders. Investment choices are presented as objective facts and so provide a rationale for the disruptive interventions. Participation thus provides government a platform to impose its views in a context of severe power asymmetries, while alternatives are marginalised and dissent is disciplined.']
['Bryer, Thomas A.', 'Online Public Engagement in the Obama Administration: Building a Democracy Bubble?', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Following the Bush administration, the Obama team enhanced access for citizens to participatory venues primarily through online mechanisms. Developing such channels gives citizens opportunity to develop their citizenship skills, potentially influence policy, and become more connected to community life. The administration can be applauded for participatory innovations, but needs to proceed strategically to ensure the innovations do not produce more harm than good and to ensure that the real change they are producing is sustainable into the next administration. This article develops the idea of a "democracy bubble" as the intersection of open access to participatory venues and inflated citizen expectations for what the participatory processes can deliver. It develops related ideas of a "democracy crater," "democracy dropouts," and "democracy demand." Three fully online or online-mediated Obama administration participation initiatives are assessed for their potential to lead to a democracy bubble: the development of Open Government Plans, the Electronic Town Hall meeting, and co-produced community forums on health care and job creation. A primary finding is that the administration can do a better job establishing and managing expectations for what can be achieved through participation in its various initiatives.']
['Blanco-L\xc3\xb3pez, \xc3\x81ngel and Espa\xc3\xb1a-Ramos, Enrique and Gonz\xc3\xa1lez-Garc\xc3\xada, Francisco Jos\xc3\xa9 and Franco-Mariscal, Antonio Joaqu\xc3\xadn', 'Key aspects of scientific competence for citizenship: A Delphi study of the expert community in Spain', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Recent decades have seen an increasing emphasis on linking the content and aims of science teaching to what the average citizen requires in order to participate effectively in contemporary society, one that is heavily dependent on science and technology. However, despite attempts to define what a scientific education for citizenship should ideally involve, a comprehensive set of key aspects has yet to be clearly established. With this in mind, the present study sought to determine empirically the extent of any consensus in Spain regarding the principal aspects of scientific competence that citizens should possess in order to function adequately in everyday life. This was done by means of a three-stage Delphi process involving 31 participants drawn from among leading and acknowledged Spanish scholar-scientists and engineers, researchers and private sector scientists, philosophers of science, science educators, and science communicators. The outcome of this process was a set of five aspects for which there was both consensus and stability. Several of these aspects were also found to be interrelated. There was a tendency for higher ratings to be given to aspects related to attitudes and/or values than to those referring to knowledge. It was in relation to the latter, along with other aspects concerning the nature of science, that discrepancies were observed among the different professional groups surveyed. Comparison of the present results with the content of previous reports indicates that in recent decades the ability to think critically and skills related to the interpretation of information have been considered to be important aspects for citizens to acquire as part of their scientific education. It is argued that the five key aspects identified in this study should be considered jointly in the context of school science education, since they are interrelated skills that citizens will require when tackling important issues and making decisions in various spheres of their life (personal, social, professional, etc.). \xc2\xa9 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Res Sci Teach 52:164\xe2\x80\x93198, 2015.']
['Liu, Shuhua Monica and Yuan, Qianli', 'The Evolution of Information and Communication Technology in Public Administration', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Over the last decades, governments all over the world have tried to take advantage of information and communication technology (ICT) to improve government operations and communication with citizens. Adoption of e-government has increased in most countries, but at the same time, the rate of successful adoption and operation varies from country to country. This article outlines the evolution of ICT in the public sector over the past 25\xe2\x80\x89years. It presents general trends by examining interactions and mutual shaping processes between ICT evolution and several inter-related institutional changes including government operations, public services delivery, citizen participation, policy and decision making, and governance reform. The authors suggest that within a short time period, e-governance has evolved rapidly from rudimentary uses of ICTs as simple tools to support highly structured administrative work to the integration of ICT throughout government operations. The growing use of Web 2.0, social media, and mobile and wireless ICT by citizens can also heavily impact the way public services are delivered and how citizen engagement processes are carried out. However, new management approaches, governance structures, and policy frameworks are still missing, posing a challenge for governments to operate effectively in the age of big data. Generally, developing countries are lagging behind in e-government adoption compared with developed countries. Thus, for developing countries to successfully adopt ICT and try to leapfrog some of the obstacles encountered by early ICT adopters in developed countries, systematic analyses need to be conducted to understand the interactions among stakeholders and ICTs and co-create the institutional environment to lead to a positive impact of ICT on public administration. Only when this relationship is clearly understood can innovative ICTs be seamlessly integrated into the governance structure. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.']
['Nik-Bakht*, Mazdak and El-diraby, Tamer E.', 'Communities of Interest\xe2\x80\x93Interest of Communities: Social and Semantic Analysis of Communities in Infrastructure Discussion Networks', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'The process of public consultation for planning and construction of sustainable urban infrastructure requires a bidirectional communication among as many stakeholders of the project as possible. In modern infrastructure projects, social web and online social media play an important role in involving citizens through what is referred to as "microparticipation." However, the social network which is formed behind the scene of microparticipation is usually ignored by both researchers and practitioners. This article combines community detection in social networks with information retrieval methods, to detect and label communities of project followers and cores of interest in the network of urban infrastructure project stakeholders. We study dynamics of the network and its communities by monitoring them over time. This technique is used to analyze followers of a Light Rail Transit (LRT) project in microblogging website Twitter and profile them based on their interests and ideas they support. Although methods of this article can be readily applied to other cases where connectivity of project followers and their descriptions are retrievable, our work is mainly interested in how to analyze Twitter discussions without any assumption that they replace the other online or offline means of public involvement in infrastructure projects. This article is an extended version of a conference paper that appeared as Nik Bakht & El-Diraby, 2013(2).']
['Dunston, Roger and Lee, Alison and Boud, David and Brodie, Pat and Chiarella, Mary', 'Co-Production and Health System Reform \xe2\x80\x93 From Re-Imagining To Re-Making', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "There is growing interest in the application of citizen participation within all areas of public sector service development, where it is increasingly promoted as a significant strand of post-neoliberal policy concerned with re-imagining citizenship and more participatory forms of citizen/consumer engagement. The application of such a perspective within health services, via co-production, has both beneficial, but also problematic implications for the organisation of such services, for professional practice and education. Given the disappointing results in increasing consumer involvement in health services via 'choice' and 'voice' participation strategies, the question of how the more challenging approach of co-production will fare needs to be addressed. The article discusses the possibilities and challenges of system-wide co-production for health. It identifies the discourse and practice contours of co-production, differentiating co-production from other health consumer-led approaches. Finally, it identifies issues critically related to the successful implementation of co-production where additional theorisation and research are required."]
['Sze, Julie and London, Jonathan', 'Teaching and Learning Guide for: Environmental Justice', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Author's IntroductionOver the last 25\xc2\xa0years, the environmental justice movement has emerged from its earliest focus on US social movements combating environmental racism to an influential global phenomenon. Environmental justice research has also undergone spectacular growth and diffusion in the last two decades. From its earliest roots in sociology, the field is now firmly entrenched in several different academic disciplines including geography, urban planning, public health, law, ethnic studies, and public policy. Environmental justice refers simultaneously to a vibrant and growing academic research field, a system of social movements aimed at addressing various environmental and social inequalities, and public policies crafted to ameliorate conditions of environmental and social injustice. Academia is responding to this social problem by offering courses under various rubrics, such as 'Race, Poverty and the Environment, Environmental Racism, Environmental Justice', 'Urban Planning, Public Health And Environmental Justice', and so on. Courses on environmental justice offer students opportunities to critically and reflexively explore issues of race and racism, social inequality, social movements, public/environmental health, public policy and law, and intersections of science and policy. Integrating modules on environmental justice can help professors engage students in action research, service learning, and more broadly, critical pedagogy.This article offers an overview of the current state of the field and offers a range of resources for teaching concepts of environmental racism, inequality and injustice in the classroom.Author recommendsPellow, D. and R. Brulle 2005. Power, Justice and the Environment : a Critical Appraisal of the Environmental Justice Movement. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.The primary focus of this edited collection is to offer a 'Critical Appraisal' of the environmental justice movement. The articles in this book are strong, focused on broad areas of: critical assessment, new strategies, and the challenge of globalization.Downey, L. and B. Hawkins 2008. 'Race, Income, and Environmental Inequality in the United States.'Sociological Perspectives51: 759\xe2\x80\x9381.This article is an effective overview of the current sociological literature on environmental inequality using quantitative methods.L. Cole and S. Foster 2001. From the Ground Up: Environmental Racism and the Ris of the Environmental Justice Movement. New York: New York University PressThe primary focus of this book is an overview of the US Environmental Justice Movement. Unique in itself, the authors, an activist lawyer and law professor, offer a well-written overview of the movement.Taylor, Dorceta E. 2000. 'The Rise of the Environmental Justice Paradigm: Injustice Framing and the Social Construction of Environmental Discourses.'American Behavioral Scientist43: 508\xe2\x80\x9380.A leading environmental justice scholar discusses the issue of injustice framing.Morello-Frosch, R. A. 2002. 'Discrimination and the Political Economy of Environmental Inequality.'Environment and Planning C: Government and Policy 20(2002): 477\xe2\x80\x9396.In a critique that focuses on the political economy of place, geography, and ethnic studies, Morello-Frosch integrates relevant social and legal theories with a spatialized economic critique to formulate a more supple theory of environmental discrimination that focuses on historical patterns of industrial development and racialized labor markets, suburbanization and segregation, and economic restructuring.Pastor, Manuel, Rachel Morello-Frosch, James Sadd, Carlos Porras and Michele Prichard 2005. 'Citizens, Science, and Data Judo: Leveraging Secondary Data Analysis to Build a Community-Academic Collaborative for Environmental Justice in Southern California,' in Methods For Conducting Community-Based Participatory Research For Health, edited by Barbara A. Israel, Eugenia Eng, Amy J. Schulz and Edith A. Parker. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.Exemplary reflexive analysis of the power of research as intervention in environmental justice struggles.Online materials\n* 1\xe2\x80\x8225 stories from the Central Valley: http://twentyfive.ucdavis.edu\n* 2\xe2\x80\x82Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta: http://www.ejrc.cau.edu/\n* 3\xe2\x80\x82US EPA Environmental Justice: http://www.epa.gov/environmentaljustice/\n* 4\xe2\x80\x82Environmental Justice of Field Studies: University of Michigan: http://sitemaker.umich.edu/environmentaljusticefieldstudies/home\n* 5\xe2\x80\x82Center on Race, Poverty and the Environment: http://www.crpe-ej.org/\n* 6\xe2\x80\x82National Black Environmental Justice Network: http://www.nbejn.org/\n* 7\xe2\x80\x82Environmental Justice and Climate Change Initiative: http://www.ejcc.org/\n* 8\xe2\x80\x82Environmental Justice Project: http://ej.ucdavis.edu/Sample syllabusEthnic Studies 103: Environmental RacismFall 2008Instructor: Traci Brynne VoylesContact Information:tvoyles@ucsd.eduOffice Hours: Monday, Wednesday 11:00-12:30, SSB 240 and by appointmentPurpose: This course is designed to explore issues germane to environmental racism and environmental injustice, particularly focusing on the theoretical and material implications of social constructions of identity (race, class, gender, sexuality, etc.) and nature that lead to the degradation of racialized environments, bodies, and communities. In this course, we will explore case studies of environmental injustice, theories of body, space, nation, and colonialism; and think through possibilities for resistance, sovereignty, and environmental justice. The course materials are derived from ethnic studies, environmental justice studies, and feminist theory to provide multiple interdisciplinary perspectives on the state of race, inequality, and environment.Logistics: You can reach me by email, in my office hours, or by appointment at any time during the quarter. I respond to students' emails by 10 am every weekday; I do not answer students' emails on weekends.\xc2\xa0I do not accept late assignments or assignments submitted electronically.\xc2\xa0This syllabus is subject to change; any changes will be announced well in advance in class or by email.\xc2\xa0Please refer to the UCSD Principles of Community (http://www.ucsd.edu/principles) for guidelines on standards of conduct and respect in the classroom. I reserve the right to excuse anyone from my classroom at any time for violating these principles.Required Texts1. Luke Cole and Sheila Foster, From the Ground Up: Environmental Racism and the Rise of the Environmental Justice Movement, NYU Press, 2000.2. Andrea Smith, Conquest: Sexual Violence and American Indian Genocide, South End Press, 2005.3. Rachel Stein, Ed., New Perspectives on Environmental Justice: Gender, Sexuality, and Activism, Rutgers University Press, 2004.4. Al Gedicks, Resource Rebels: Native Challenges to Mining and Oil Corporations, South End Press, 2001.5. Ana Castillo, So Far from God, Tandem Library Books, 1994.These texts are available on campus at Groundwork Books.Assignments and Evaluation\xc2\xa030 points: Attendance and reading responses\xc2\xa020 points: Unit 1 Case Study Project and Paper\xc2\xa020 points: Unit 2 Paper\xc2\xa010 points: The View from UCSD Project\xc2\xa020 points: Unit 3 PaperUnit 1 Project For this project, you will work both in a group (4 people MAX) and individually. Ten points will be earned by doing a group presentation of your assigned case, explaining to the class in 4\xe2\x80\x936 minutes the who, what, when, where, and how of your case. Your group will produce a 1 page, bullet-pointed informative analysis of the case in a style that could or would be distributed publicly. NO POWERPOINTS OR MEDIA THAT DOES NOT FIT ONTO THE 1 PAGE\xe2\x80\x94on the 1 page, however, you can use graphics to convey major points about the case.\xc2\xa0The remaining 10 points will be earned by turning in a 500-word paper that links this case to the course readings and lectures. A prompt for this paper will be distributed one week before it is due.Unit 2 Paper (1000\xe2\x80\x931250 words) The prompt for this paper will be distributed one week before it is due. The prompt will require you to critically analyze course readings, lectures, and discussions from Unit 2.The View from UCSD For this project, you will present a creative project of your choosing that explores themes of environmental racism and injustice from your viewpoint \xe2\x80\x93 that is, of a UCSD student. What is the relationship of UCSD as an academic institution to environmental injustice? How can (or how have) UCSD students contest and resist the perpetuation or funding of environmental injustices by their academic institutions? This project can be poetry, visual art, activist literature (i.e. brochures, web sites, pamphlets, etc.), political cartoons, activist alert bulletins, journalistic articles or photographic essays, etc.Unit 3 Paper (1000-1250 words) The prompt for this paper will be distributed one week before it is due. The prompt will require you to think cumulatively about the course and apply materials and key themes from Units 1 and 2 to the readings, lectures, and discussions from Unit 3.Unit 1: What's the Problem Here? Case Studies in Environmental Racism and Environmental Injustice In this unit, we will explore cases of environmental injustice through four major frameworks that will be used throughout the course:\xc2\xa01. The social construction of identity and power (of race/racism, gender/patriarchy, sexuality/heteronormativity, etc.);\xc2\xa02. The intersectionality of identity and power;\xc2\xa03. The relationality of privilege and inequality; and\xc2\xa04. The transnational or global nature of modern political\xe2\x80\x93economic structures9/26 Fri: 1st DAY \xe2\x80\x93 Introductions\xc2\xa0No reading dueWeek 1 ER Frameworks: Race, Gender, Sexuality, and Nation9/29 Mon:\xc2\xa0Cole and Foster, pp. 1\xe2\x80\x933310/1 Wed:\xc2\xa0Cole and Foster, pp. 34\xe2\x80\x935310/3 Fri:\xc2\xa0Cole and Foster, pp. 54\xe2\x80\x9379Week 2 Relationality and Globalization10/6 Mon:\xc2\xa0Cole and Foster, pp. 80\xe2\x80\x9310210/8 Wed:\xc2\xa0Cole and Foster, pp. 103\xe2\x80\x9313310/10 Fri:\xc2\xa0Cole and Foster, pp. 134\xe2\x80\x93166Week 310/13 Mon: Environmental Racism Case Studies\xc2\xa0Due: Unit 1 case study project and paperUnit 2: A User's Guide to Environmental Justice Studies: Analytic Frameworks and Theoretical Possibilities This unit moves us from the material effects of environmental racism and injustice to the analytic frameworks and theoretical possibilities of environmental justice studies. In this unit, we will read, discuss, and develop theories about how racialization and naturalization work together, what role the environment plays in colonial encounters, and how to re-imagine what we mean by 'nature', 'race', and 'body'.10/15 Wed:\xc2\xa0Stein, pp. xiii-2010/17 Fri: ss\xc2\xa0Stein, pp. 21\xe2\x80\x9362Week 4 Ecocriticism10/20 Mon:\xc2\xa0Stein, pp. 63\xe2\x80\x937710/22 Wed:\xc2\xa0Stein, pp. 78\xe2\x80\x9310810/24 Fri:\xc2\xa0Stein, pp. 109\xe2\x80\x93138Week 5 Colonialism10/27 Mon:\xc2\xa0Stein, pp. 225\xe2\x80\x9324810/29 Wed:\xc2\xa0Smith, pp. ix-3410/31 Fri:\xc2\xa0Smith, pp. 55\xe2\x80\x9378Week 6 Indigeneity and Sovereignty11/3 Mon:\xc2\xa0Smith, pp. 137\xe2\x80\x9317611/5 Wed:\xc2\xa0Smith, pp. 177\xe2\x80\x9319211/7 Fri:\xc2\xa0Due: Unit 2 paperUNIT 3: Decolonize This! Modes of Resistance to Environmental Injustice This unit is dedicated to the all-important question of where to go from here? Now that we understand the material and theoretical ins and outs of environmental racism and injustice, how can and how is it being contested, resisted, and undone?Week 7 Social Movements11/10 Mon:\xc2\xa0Geddicks, pp. vi-1411/12 Wed:\xc2\xa0Geddicks, pp. 15\xe2\x80\x934011/14 Fri:\xc2\xa0Geddicks, pp. 127\xe2\x80\x93158Week 8 The Politics and Poetics of EJ Resistance11/17 Mon:\xc2\xa0Geddicks, pp. 159\xe2\x80\x9318011/19 Wed:\xc2\xa0Geddicks, pp. 181\xe2\x80\x9320211/21 Fri:\xc2\xa0Castillo, pp. TBAWeek 9 Poetics11/24 Mon:\xc2\xa0Castillo, pp. TBA11/26 Wed: NO CLASS11/28 Fri: NO CLASSWeek 10 Conclusions and EJ Futures12/1 Mon:\xc2\xa0Castillo, pp. TBA12/3 Wed:\xc2\xa0Castillo, pp. TBA12/5 Fri: LAST DAY\xe2\x80\x94Conclusions\xc2\xa0Due: View from UCSD ProjectUnit 3 Paper due on or before Tuesday, December 9, at 11am, in my office (SSB 240)Guidelines for written assignments:*Please note: more specific requirements for content, quality, and style will be included with each prompt.The three papers required for this course must be:\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\x93Typed\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\x93Stapled\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\x93Submitted on timePlease include a header with:\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\x93Your name\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\x93The name of the assignment (e.g. 'Unit 2 Paper')\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\x93A word countPlease do not include:\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\x93A title\xc2\xa0\xe2\x80\x93The assignment promptMajoring or Minoring in Ethnic Studies at UCSDMany students take an Ethnic Studies course because the topic is of great interest or because of a need to fulfill a social science, non-contiguous, or other college requirement. Often students have taken three or four classes out of 'interest' yet have no information about the major or minor and don't realize how close they are to a major, a minor, or even a double major. An Ethnic Studies major is excellent preparation for a career in law, public policy, government and politics, journalism, education, public health, social work, international relations, and many other careers. If you would like information about the Ethnic Studies major or minor at UCSD, please contact Yolanda Escamilla, Ethnic Studies Department Undergraduate Advisor, at 858-534-3277 or yescamilla@ucsd.edu.OptionalFocus questions\n* 1\xe2\x80\x82What are the roots of environmental inequality? What are the major policy debates within the field of environmental justice?\n* 2\xe2\x80\x82How has environmental justice academic writing and environmental justice activism changed since the 1980s? What accounts for these changes?\n* 3\xe2\x80\x82What are the relationships between academic research, environmental justice, and the politics of knowledge production, more broadly? How are these relationships complicated by factors such as race, class, and gender?\n* 4\xe2\x80\x82What challenges do researchers interested in environmental justice face and why?\n* 5\xe2\x80\x82What are the challenges faced by environmental justice activists that can be informed by EJ research?Seminar/project idea25 Stories Project: Teaching Tools available in the Summer 2009http://www.twentyfive.ucdavis.eduUse these teaching tools to introduce the environmental justice movement in classroom settings. Tools may be used individually or in combination with one another.Below, you will see that we have organized the tools by the intended purpose of the activity. In considering which to use, it may be helpful to look over the 'Why Do It' section of the directions for the tool you are looking at for an indication of how this activity might fit within your course material.PurposeTeaching toolGetting to know the group's experience of the environmentShare squares Environmental experience in pictures Circles of my selfDefining environmental justiceWhere is the environment and what do people do there? Environmental justice definedResearching your place in the environmentMapping your community My town, your town Data detectiveLearning from the life-stories of othersEnvironmental justice stories Circles of my selfCombining tools for lesson planningEach teaching tool fits into one (or more) of the categories above. Combine tools from different categories to create lesson plans for your class or workshop.For example, in a 50-min class session you could combine the following tools:\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82Help the group get to know each other with 'Share squares'.\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82Explore various understandings of the environment with 'Where is the environment and what do people do there?' and then\n* \xe2\x80\xa2\xe2\x80\x82Analyze women's real-life experiences with stories and questions relevant to your class with 'Environmental Justice Stories'."]
['Carre\xc3\xb1o, Pablo and Gutierrez, Francisco J. and Ochoa, Sergio F. and Fortino, Giancarlo', 'Supporting personal security using participatory sensing', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Personal security is an open problem in large cities. After several attempts to reduce violence and crime, there seems to be an agreement that preventive actions are the best way to address this problem. Trying to help deal with that challenge, this paper proposes a mobile collaborative application, named Personal Guardian, which is used by civilians while walking in urban areas. The application is focused on crime prevention and it implements participatory sensing to help people be aware of the risks that appear to exist in a certain place at a certain time. Based on that information, citizens can take appropriate and on-time preventive actions. The system is supported by a human-centric wireless sensor network, and it is complementary to the security solutions already used by public and private organizations. The system architecture and its main components are described, and the main requirements and design decisions are also discussed. A preliminary evaluation of the solution was conducted to determine its strengths and weaknesses in terms of quality of service. The obtained results indicate that the information feeding process is more relevant for end-users than the unattended delivery of awareness information about their personal security. In addition, this former capability does not require to be adjusted to the end-users' context. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd."]
['Verdonschot, M. M. L. and De Witte, L. P. and Reichrath, E. and Buntinx, W. H. E. and Curfs, L. M. G.', 'Impact of environmental factors on community participation of persons with an intellectual disability: a systematic review', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Study Design\xc2\xa0 A systematic review of the literature.Objectives\xc2\xa0 To describe which environmental factors have an impact on community participation of persons with an intellectual disability.Methods\xc2\xa0 A systematic literature search was conducted for the period of 1996\xe2\x80\x932006 in Pubmed, CINAHL and PSYCINFO. Search terms were derived from the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health. Three investigators assessed the relevance of the studies identified using predefined selection criteria. Aspects of community participation included were: domestic life; interpersonal interactions and relationships; major life areas; community, civic and social life. Environmental factors included were: products and technology; natural environment and human-made changes to environment; support and relationships; attitudes; services, systems and policies.Results\xc2\xa0 Out of 236 initial hits, 9 quantitative studies and 2 qualitative studies met the predefined selection criteria and were included in the study. Various research instruments were used in the studies and only one study used a conceptual framework. The review allowed the identification of a number of environmental factors positively affecting participation: opportunities to make choices; variety and stimulation of the environment of facilities; opportunities for resident involvement in policy making; small residential facilities; opportunities for autonomy; vocational services; social support; family involvement; assistive technology; and positive staff attitudes. A number of identified environmental factors negatively affecting participation are: lack of transport and not feeling accepted.Discussion\xc2\xa0 It can be concluded that little has been published about the impact of environmental factors on community participation. Many studies do not clearly define the concept of community participation. Research on the impact of environmental factors on community participation so far seems not to be based on a theoretical framework. Most studies focused on the impact of services on community participation in general.']
['Zeldin, Shepherd and Krauss, Steven Eric and Collura, Jessica and Lucchesi, Micaela and Sulaiman, Abdul Hadi', 'Conceptualizing and Measuring Youth\xe2\x80\x93Adult Partnership in Community Programs: A Cross National Study', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Youth participation in program and community decision making is framed by scholars as an issue of social justice, a platform for positive youth development and effective citizenry, and a strategy for nation building. Recent literature reviews have consistently identified youth\xe2\x80\x93adult partnership (Y\xe2\x80\x93AP) as an effective type of youth participation across highly diverse contexts. These same reviews, however, note that indicators of Y\xe2\x80\x93AP have not been conceptualized and validated for measurement purposes. The present study addresses this limitation by developing a brief measure of Y\xe2\x80\x93AP that is explicitly grounded in current theory, research, and community practice. The measure was administered to youth in the United States, Malaysia, and Portugal (N = 610). Validation was assessed through factor analysis and tests of factorial, discriminant, and concurrent validity. Results confirmed the two predicted dimensions of the Y\xe2\x80\x93AP measure: youth voice in decision making and supportive adult relationships. These two dimensions were also found to be distinct from other measures of program quality: safety and engagement. As predicted, they also significantly correlated with measures of agency and empowerment. It is concluded that the measure has the potential to support community efforts to maximize the quality of youth programs.']
['Baulac, Michel and de Boer, Hanneke and Elger, Christian and Glynn, Mike and K\xc3\xa4lvi\xc3\xa4inen, Reetta and Little, Ann and Mifsud, Janet and Perucca, Emilio and Pitk\xc3\xa4nen, Asla and Ryvlin, Philippe', 'Epilepsy priorities in Europe: A report of the ILAE-IBE Epilepsy Advocacy Europe Task Force', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'The European Forum on Epilepsy Research (ERF2013), which took place in Dublin, Ireland, on May 26\xe2\x80\x9329, 2013, was designed to appraise epilepsy research priorities in Europe through consultation with clinical and basic scientists as well as representatives of lay organizations and health care providers. The ultimate goal was to provide a platform to improve the lives of persons with epilepsy by influencing the political agenda of the EU. The Forum highlighted the epidemiologic, medical, and social importance of epilepsy in Europe, and addressed three separate but closely related concepts. First, possibilities were explored as to how the stigma and social burden associated with epilepsy could be reduced through targeted initiatives at EU national and regional levels. Second, ways to ensure optimal standards of care throughout Europe were specifically discussed. Finally, a need for further funding in epilepsy research within the European Horizon 2020 funding programme was communicated to politicians and policymakers participating to the forum. Research topics discussed specifically included (1) epilepsy in the developing brain; (2) novel targets for innovative diagnostics and treatment of epilepsy; (3) what is required for prevention and cure of epilepsy; and (4) epilepsy and comorbidities, with a special focus on aging and mental health. This report provides a summary of recommendations that emerged at ERF2013 about how to (1) strengthen epilepsy research, (2) reduce the treatment gap, and (3) reduce the burden and stigma associated with epilepsy.\nHalf of the 6 million European citizens with epilepsy feel stigmatized and experience social exclusion, stressing the need for funding trans-European awareness campaigns and monitoring their impact on stigma, in line with the global commitment of the European Commission and with the recommendations made in the 2011 Written Declaration on Epilepsy. Epilepsy care has high rates of misdiagnosis and considerable variability in organization and quality across European countries, translating into huge societal cost (0.2% GDP) and stressing the need for cost-effective programs of harmonization and optimization of epilepsy care throughout Europe. There is currently no cure or prevention for epilepsy, and 30% of affected persons are not controlled by current treatments, stressing the need for pursuing research efforts in the field within Horizon 2020. Priorities should include (1) development of innovative biomarkers and therapeutic targets and strategies, from gene and cell-based therapies to technologically advanced surgical treatment; (2) addressing issues raised by pediatric and aging populations, as well as by specific etiologies and comorbidities such as traumatic brain injury (TBI) and cognitive dysfunction, toward more personalized medicine and prevention; and (3) translational studies and clinical trials built upon well-established European consortia.']
['TAYLOR, JAMI KATHLEEN and CLERKIN, RICHARD M.', 'Public Service Motivation and Political Action in College Undergraduates', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This article extends the application of the public service motivation (PSM) construct from differences between volunteers and employees in the public, nonprofit, and private sectors to the phenomenon of political activities that occurs during the public policy process. Based upon regression analysis performed on a sample of undergraduate students enrolled in introductory political science courses at a large public university, PSM appears to affect overall levels of political participation. Additionally, the rational, normative, and affective dimensions of PSM appear to affect specific types of political activity in different manners. This article argues that the PSM construct provides a way to measure individual-level receptiveness to civic motivators, an important purposive incentive that spurs political participation.Este art\xc3\xadculo extiende la aplicaci\xc3\xb3n del constructo motivacional por el servicio p\xc3\xbablico a partir de diferencias entre voluntarios y empleados en el p\xc3\xbablico, organizaciones sin fines de lucro y el sector privado al fen\xc3\xb3meno de actividades pol\xc3\xadticas que ocurren durante el proceso de pol\xc3\xadticas p\xc3\xbablicas. Basado en un an\xc3\xa1lisis de regresi\xc3\xb3n usado en una muestra de estudiantes de licenciatura inscritos en un curso introductorio de ciencia pol\xc3\xadtica en una importante universidad p\xc3\xbablica, la motivaci\xc3\xb3n por el servicio p\xc3\xbablico parece afectar todos los niveles de participaci\xc3\xb3n pol\xc3\xadtica. Adicionalmente, las dimensiones racionales, normativas y afectivas de la motivaci\xc3\xb3n por el servicio p\xc3\xbablico parecen afectar g\xc3\xa9neros espec\xc3\xadficos de actividad pol\xc3\xadtica de diferentes maneras. Este estudio argumenta que el constructo motivacional por el servicio p\xc3\xbablico proporciona una forma de medir niveles individuales de receptividad hacia motivadores c\xc3\xadvicos, un importante incentivo deliberado que estimula la participaci\xc3\xb3n pol\xc3\xadtica.']
['Wells, Chris', 'Civic Identity and the Question of Organization in Contemporary Civic Engagement', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This is a response to the article by Ethan Zuckerman "New Media, New Civics?" published in this issue of Policy & Internet (2014: vol. 6, issue 2). Dissatisfaction with existing governments, a broad shift to "post-representative democracy" and the rise of participatory media are leading toward the visibility of different forms of civic participation. Zuckerman\'s article offers a framework to describe participatory civics in terms of theories of change used and demands places on the participant, and examines some of the implications of the rise of participatory civics, including the challenges of deliberation in a diverse and competitive digital public sphere. Chris Wells responds.']
['Darling, Jonathan', 'Teaching and Learning Guide for: Thinking Beyond Place: The Responsibilities of a Relational Spatial Politics', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "This guide accompanies the following article: Jonathan Darling, 'Thinking Beyond Place: The Responsibilities of a Relational Spatial Politics', Geography Compass 3(5) (2009): 1938\xe2\x80\x931954, doi: 10.1111/j.1749-8198.2009.00262.xAuthor's IntroductionAccounts of space and place as relational constructions have become increasingly dominant within contemporary human geography as cities in particular are presented as sites situated within networks and flows of connection and interaction. Such work has led to a series of political assertions and subsequent contests. In particular, it is argued that a relational account of place demands a focus on: responsibility both within place, to internal heterogeneity, and beyond place, to the links and connections that sustain place. In such a politics, moments of negotiation and the articulation of multiple demands take centre stage. A number of geographers have begun to challenge such accounts of political practice, arguing that politics remains both a territorially bound, and relationally connected, phenomena. This paper examines these debates over the constitution of place politics, in order to suggest that they might help to develop geography's sense of ethical engagement with both distant, and proximate, strangers.Author Recommends1. Massey, D. (2007). World city. Cambridge: Polity.A clear and accessible account of how a city, in this case London, is constructed through an array of connections and relations both to difference within and beyond its limits. Massey begins to articulate an account of 'politics beyond place' here and clearly outlines the varied spatial scales wherein the responsibilities of place might be drawn.2. Malpass, A., Cloke, P., Barnett, C. and Clarke, N. (2007). Fairtrade urbanism? The politics of place beyond place in the Bristol fair-trade city campaign. International Journal of Urban and Regional Research 31, pp. 633\xe2\x80\x93645, doi: 10.1111/j.1468-2427.2007.00747.xMalpass et\xc2\xa0al. provide one of the best applications of Massey's account of a 'politics beyond place', considering how a relational account of the city might be applied to the Fairtrade cities movement. They consider issues of ethical consumption and relations of distance and proximity through interrogating the local\xe2\x80\x93global narratives deployed to promote an idea of fair trade relations within place.3. Massey, D. (2004). Geographies of responsibility. Geografiska Annaler 86 (B), pp. 5\xe2\x80\x9318, doi: 10.1111/j.0435-3684.2004.00150.xThis is the paper in which Massey begins to consider the ethical implications of relational thought, through posing a challenge to think politically, and responsibly, about the connections of place. Massey argues for a politics of connectivity, yet one which is sensitive to the specificities, and responsibilities, of place, and in doing so begins to consider how such a politics might be developed in London, a charge she develops further in World City. On the political implications of relational thought, see also the other papers in this special issue of Geografiska Annaler.4. Popke, E. J. (2007). Geography and ethics: spaces of cosmopolitan responsibility. Progress in Human Geography 31, pp. 509\xe2\x80\x93518. doi: 10.1177/0309132507077090This paper provides an up-to-date review of recent work on ethics within geography with a particular focus upon issues of cosmopolitan thought and responsibility to strangers both proximate and distant. Popke provides a clear review of different approaches to the demands of urban cosmopolitanism and argues for a localised, and open, engagement with different geographical imaginations placing in question as a result many of our current spatial certainties.5. Smith, D. M. (1998). How far should we care? On the spatial scope of beneficence. Progress in Human Geography 22, pp. 15\xe2\x80\x9338, doi: 10.1191/030913298670636601This is an agenda-setting paper for considering the role that distance and proximity play within ethical discussions and decisions. Smith considers the history of geography's engagement with ethical theories and clearly examines the challenges posed by both partialist and impartialist accounts of ethical action. Drawing on feminist accounts of an ethic of care, Smith suggests that geography has a key role to play in envisioning an account of ethical thought and action, which is neither a parochial partiality nor a dispassionate impartial universality, but which places the negotiations of demands for care as central.6. Allen, J. (2008). Claiming connections: a distant world of sweatshops? In: Barnett, C., Robinson, J. and Rose, G. (eds) Geographies of globalisation: a demanding world. London: Sage/Milton Keynes, The Open UniversityChapter one of this edited collection examines the spatial connections of contemporary consumption, in particular through the case of sweatshop labour exploitation. In a clearly written and accessible chapter, Allen considers how issues of exploitation are actively distanced from consumers, while antisweatshop movements use a vocabulary of connection and responsibility to make such issues proximate and demanding. Further chapters in this collection on the demands of citizenship (chapter three) and international politics (chapter eight) are also recommended.7. Castree, N. (2004). Differential geographies: place, indigenous rights and 'local' resources. Political Geography 23, pp. 133\xe2\x80\x93167, doi: 10.1016/j.polgeo.2003.09.010This paper provides a clear overview, and critique, of different areas of relational thought within geography. It examines the contradictions within relational accounts of spatial practice and politics, suggesting a more nuanced take on sociospatial relations. Empirically, Castree provides a detailed reading of the tensions and political negotiations of the global indigenous peoples' movement, negotiations that he argues are shot through with different spatial imaginaries.8. Amin, A. and Thrift, N. (2002). Cities: reimagining the urban. Cambridge: Polity.This is a book that altered the ways in which geographers approach the city. Amin and Thrift's analysis of the interwoven nature of propinquity and flow within the city (chapter two) was one of the first examples of a relational approach being taken to the urban. The book also begins the process of teasing out many of the political implications of a more mobile account of urban life and spatiality.Online Materials1. Fairtrade Townshttp://www.fairtradetowns.orgThe website of the Fairtrade Foundation's Fairtrade Towns initiative. The website includes details on those towns and cities currently holding fairtrade status, how cities, and citizens, can become involved in the campaign and an array of resources for supporting and starting local campaigns. Here there is a focus on how local actions within communities around consumption patterns and decisions can have widespread impacts on livelihoods and communities across the globe.2. SweatFree Communitieshttp://www.sweatfree.orgThe website of a community based social movement promoting local, place specific, action to challenge the exploitation of workers in sweatshops internationally. The movement focuses on activism to promote sweatfree procurement measures among local authorities and organisations as a means to take responsibility for local consumption. The website thus contains details of their Sweatfree Cities initiative as a grassroots effort to encourage the adoption of sweatfree procurement on a city-wide basis.3. National Coalition of Anti-Deportation Campaignshttp://www.ncadc.org.ukNCADC is a campaigning organisation focused on the rights of asylum seekers and refugees in the UK. In particular, the group assist in campaigns against deportations and lobby for the halting of unjust and inhuman deportation practices. Their website contains details of past and present campaigns, how UK residents can become involved in challenging deportations, and focuses upon the ethical responsibility of citizens to do so.Sample SyllabusThe series of discussion sessions detailed below are conceived as part of a wider course on contemporary spatial and political theory. It is intended that such a course would reflect a mix of theoretically and empirically centred work. The aim of this section of the course would be to examine what political and ethical implications arise from relational accounts of space and place.Week I: Introducing relational spatial thoughtThis session introduces this area of geographical thought by examining how space has been conceived as a relational entity. The distinction between notions of place as a bounded container of social activity and identity and relational suggestions that places are the articulation of bundles of connections is emphasised as the basis for differing political positions and stances in relation to calls for ethical responsibility.ReadingAmin, A. (2002). Spatialities of globlization. Environment and Planning A 34, pp. 385\xe2\x80\x93399.Darling, J. (2009). Thinking beyond place: the responsibilities of a relational spatial politics. Geography Compass 3, pp. 1938\xe2\x80\x931954.Harvey, D. (2006). Space as a keyword. In: Castree, N. and Gregory, D. (eds) David Harvey: a critical reader. Oxford: Blackwell, pp. 270\xe2\x80\x93294.Massey, D. (2005). For space. London: Sage.Murdoch, J. (2006). Post-structural geography: a guide to relational space. London: Sage.Thrift, N. (1996). Spatial formations. London: Sage.Week II: The politics of placeRelational accounts of space and place are argued to construct a particular form of political engagement, one centred upon both dealing with the claims of proximate others and negotiating the demands of more distant connections. A distinction is drawn here between inward focused 'place-bound' political projects, and more 'progressive' and 'outward looking''place-based' political projects.ReadingAmin, A. (2004). Regions unbound: towards a new politics of place. Geografiska Annaler 86 (B), pp. 33\xe2\x80\x9344.Amin, A. and Thrift, N. (2005). Citizens of the world: seeing the city as a site of international influence. Harvard International Review 27, pp. 14\xe2\x80\x9317.Malpass, A., Cloke, P., Barnett, C. and Clarke, N. (2007). Fairtrade urbanism? The politics of place beyond place in the Bristol Fairtrade City Campaign. International Journal of Urban and Regional Research 31, pp. 633\xe2\x80\x93645.Massey, D. (1999). Spaces of politics. In: Massey, D., Allen, J. and Sarre, P. (eds) Human geography today. Cambridge: Polity, pp. 279\xe2\x80\x93294.Massey, D. (2007). World city. Cambridge: Polity.May, J. (1996). Globalization and the politics of place: place and identity in an inner London neighbourhood. Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers 21, pp. 194\xe2\x80\x93214.Week III: Territorial challengesA number of areas of work have begun to challenge the political assumptions of relational modes of thought. In particular, work on geographical regions has suggested that the distinctions between territorial, place-bound politics and a more relational, place-based account are drawn too tightly. The critiques of relational thought posed here suggest that there need not be a privileging of a particular form of political spatiality at the expense of all others.ReadingCastree, N. (2004). Differential geographies: place, indigenous rights and 'local' resources. Political Geography 23, pp. 133\xe2\x80\x93167.Jessop, B., Brenner, B. and Jones, M. (2008). Theorizing socio-spatial relations. Environment and Planning D: Society and Space 26, pp. 389\xe2\x80\x93401.Jones, M. (2009). Phase space: geography, relational thinking, and beyond. Progress in Human Geography 33, pp. 487\xe2\x80\x93506.MacLeod, G. and Jones, M. (2007). Territorial, scalar, networked, connected: in what sense a 'regional world'? Regional Studies 41, pp. 1171\xe2\x80\x931191.Week IV: Distant demands and ethical geographyResearch on ethics within geography has focused in part upon the demands that distant obligations pose, and on the role that distance might play in moral partiality. A relational account of space begins to question some of the spatial assumptions that underpin such work, and argues for a more political sense of spatial implication and responsibility. A relational account of responsibility is therefore seen to act as an intervention into discussions over moral partiality.ReadingBarnett, C. and Land, D. (2007). Geographies of generosity: beyond the 'moral turn'. Geoforum 38, pp. 1065\xe2\x80\x931075.Corbridge, S. (1993). Marxisms, modernities, and moralities: development praxis and the claims of distant strangers. Environment and Planning D: Society and Space 11, pp. 449\xe2\x80\x93472.Darling, J. (2009). Thinking beyond place: the responsibilities of a relational spatial politics. Geography Compass 3, pp. 1938\xe2\x80\x931954.Massey, D. (2004). Geographies of responsibility. Geografiska Annaler 86 (B), pp. 5\xe2\x80\x9318.Smith, D. M. (1998). How far should we care? On the spatial scope of beneficence. Progress in Human Geography 22, pp. 15\xe2\x80\x9338.Week V: Placing responsibilitiesThis session focuses upon examining how geographers have begun to put ideas of the relational responsibilities of place into action. There has been a focus here on both tracing responsibilities temporally, through issues such as reparations for slavery and indigenous land rights movements and, spatially, through the example of sweatshop campaigns.ReadingAllen, J. (2008). Claiming connections: a distant world of sweatshops? In: Barnett, C., Robinson, J. and Rose, G. (eds) Geographies of globalisation: a demanding world. London: Sage/Milton Keynes, The Open University, pp. 7\xe2\x80\x9354.Gatens, M. and Lloyd, G. (1999). Collective imaginings: Spinoza, past and present. London: Routledge.Pile, S. (2008). A haunted world: the unsettling demands of a globalised past. In: Barnett, C., Robinson, J. and Rose, G. (eds) Geographies of globalisation: a demanding world. London: Sage/Milton Keynes, The Open University, pp. 237\xe2\x80\x93287.Young, I. M. (2004). Responsibility and global labor justice. The Journal of Political Philosophy 12, pp. 365\xe2\x80\x93388.Week VI: Negotiating spatial grammarsThis final session looks towards how these varied stands of political negotiation and demand might be taken forward through recent work within geography on the spatialities of social movements. Here, a relational account of space is taken as simply one form of political articulation and is seen to interact with other political scales and practices. Responsibility, it is argued, arises from pursuing socially just policies and politics through the intersection of different spatial articulations.ReadingAllen, J. and Cochrane, A. (2007). Beyond the territorial fix: regional assemblages, politics and power. Regional Studies 41, pp. 1161\xe2\x80\x931176.Beaumont, J. and Nicholls, W. (2007). Between relationality and territoriality: investigating the geographies of justice movements in The Netherlands and the United States. Environment and Planning A 39, pp. 2554\xe2\x80\x932574.Massey, D. (2008). Geographies of solidarities. In: Clark, N., Massey, D. and Sarre, P. (eds) Material geographies: a world in the making. London: Sage/Milton Keynes, The Open University, pp. 311\xe2\x80\x93362.Nicholls, W. (2009). Place, networks, space: theorising the geographies of social movements Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers 34, pp. 78\xe2\x80\x9393.Popke, E. J. (2007). Geography and ethics: spaces of cosmopolitan responsibility. Progress in Human Geography 31, pp. 509\xe2\x80\x93518.Focus Questions\n* 1\xe2\x80\x82Where do the responsibilities of a given place begin and end?\n* 2\xe2\x80\x82Who should decide upon these responsibilities?\n* 3\xe2\x80\x82What challenges does a campaign such as the Fairtrade Towns movement pose to our sense of responsibility towards others?\n* 4\xe2\x80\x82In what ways might geographical distance impact on our accounts of responsibility? What examples are there of this?\n* 5\xe2\x80\x82Is a relational account of place illustrative of a cosmopolitan outlook?"]
['Kirby Goidel', 'Indian Gaming: The Declining Democratic Advantage in State Legislative Elections', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'As policy making for Indian gaming and other tribal issues has shifted from the federal government to state politics and state legislatures over the past several decades, the role of American Indians in the electoral process in state legislative elections deserves greater scholarly attention. We examine changes in voting patterns among state legislative elections over a 40-year period for districts with and without casinos. In the past, Democrats held a large advantage in casino districts both in terms of the two-party vote share and in terms of incumbents running unopposed when seeking reelection. Since the 1990s, this traditional Democratic advantage has largely disappeared to a point where the two parties compete at rough parity in these districts. In several states, American Indians represent a sizeable and potentially influential voting bloc.\n\nRelated Articles\n\n\nauthor = {Pearson-Merkowitz, Shanna.}, 2012. "Aqui No Hay Oportunidades: Latino Segregation and the Keys to Political Participation." Politics & Policy 40 (2): 258\xe2\x80\x93295. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1747-1346.2012.00349.x/abstract\n\n\n\nauthor = {Adams, Brian E.']
['Howard, Philip N.', 'Participation, Civics and Your Next Coffee Maker', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This is a response to the article by Ethan Zuckerman "New Media, New Civics?" published in this issue of Policy & Internet (2014: vol. 6, issue 2). Dissatisfaction with existing governments, a broad shift to "post-representative democracy" and the rise of participatory media are leading toward the visibility of different forms of civic participation. Zuckerman\'s article offers a framework to describe participatory civics in terms of theories of change used and demands places on the participant, and examines some of the implications of the rise of participatory civics, including the challenges of deliberation in a diverse and competitive digital public sphere. Philip Howard responds.']
['GOOD, BYRON J.', "Theorizing the 'subject' of medical and psychiatric anthropology*", 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "This essay explores recent developments in theorizing subjectivity, with a particular focus on medical and psychiatric anthropology. It suggests that studies of violence and humanitarian interventions, new medical technologies, and new modes of citizenship challenge older ways of writing about the subject and lived experience. The essay outlines four claims about the study of subjectivity \xe2\x80\x93 that 'subjectivity' denotes a set of issues quite different than classic studies of 'self' or 'person'; that viewing subjectivity through the lens of the 'postcolonial' provides a language and analytic strategies valuable for addressing such issues; that attention to 'disorders', social as well as individual, is critical to the ethnography of subjectivity; and that such ethnography requires theory and methods that facilitate attending to that which is 'unspeakable and unspoken'. The essay then provides three ethnographic vignettes from the author's work in Indonesia, using each to explore a domain central to the ethnography of subjectivity. First, it discusses the importance of the study of the genealogy of the modern subject and of distinctive patterns of modernity for anthropological research on subjectivity. Second, it outlines a particular perspective on the psychological subject. And, third, it addresses 'the eruption of the political', the ethnography of post-conflict settings, and participation in intervention as critical sites for inquiry into subjectivity. The essay juxtaposes Cavell's philosophy of 'the Ordinary' with current psychoanalytic theories as approaches to bringing that which societies and individuals keep 'hidden in plain view' into the purview of writing on subjectivity.\n\nR\xc3\xa9sum\xc3\xa9\nLe pr\xc3\xa9sent essai explore l'\xc3\xa9volution r\xc3\xa9cente de la th\xc3\xa9orisation de la subjectivit\xc3\xa9 et se concentre en particulier sur l'anthropologie m\xc3\xa9dicale et psychiatrique. Il sugg\xc3\xa8re que les anciens modes de description du sujet et de l'exp\xc3\xa9rience v\xc3\xa9cue ne sont plus adapt\xc3\xa9s aux \xc3\xa9tudes de la violence et des interventions humanitaires, des nouvelles technologies m\xc3\xa9dicales et des nouvelles formes de citoyennet\xc3\xa9. L'auteur met en lumi\xc3\xa8re quatre propositions concernant l'\xc3\xa9tude de la subjectivit\xc3\xa9\xc2\xa0: \xc2\xab\xc2\xa0la subjectivit\xc3\xa9\xc2\xa0\xc2\xbb d\xc3\xa9signe un ensemble de questions diff\xc3\xa9rentes de celles des \xc3\xa9tudes classiques du \xc2\xab soi \xc2\xbb ou de \xc2\xab la personne \xc2\xbb ; l'examen de la subjectivit\xc3\xa9\xc3\xa0 travers une lorgnette \xc2\xab postcoloniale \xc2\xbb cr\xc3\xa9e un langage et des strat\xc3\xa9gies analytiques utiles pour aborder ces questions ; il est indispensable pour l'ethnographie de la subjectivit\xc3\xa9 de s'int\xc3\xa9resser aux \xc2\xab\xc2\xa0troubles\xc2\xa0\xc2\xbb, sociaux aussi bien qu'individuels; l'ethnographie a besoin d'une th\xc3\xa9orie et d'une m\xc3\xa9thodologie facilitant l'examen de ce qui est \xc2\xab indicible et non dit \xc2\xbb. L'essai livre ensuite trois instantan\xc3\xa9s ethnographiques tir\xc3\xa9s du travail de terrain de l'auteur en Indon\xc3\xa9sie, en explorant par le biais de chacun des trois un domaine central de l'ethnographie de la subjectivit\xc3\xa9. Il aborde pour commencer l'importance de l'\xc3\xa9tude de la g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9alogie du sujet moderne et des sch\xc3\xa9mas distinctifs de modernit\xc3\xa9 dans la recherche anthropologique sur la subjectivit\xc3\xa9. Il met ensuite en lumi\xc3\xa8re une approche particuli\xc3\xa8re du sujet psychologique. Enfin, il s'int\xc3\xa9resse \xc3\xa0\xc2\xab\xc2\xa0l'\xc3\xa9ruption du politique\xc2\xa0\xc2\xbb, \xc3\xa0 l'ethnographie des contextes post-conflictuels et \xc3\xa0 la participation \xc3\xa0 l'intervention comme autant de points cruciaux dans l'\xc3\xa9tude de la subjectivit\xc3\xa9. Cet essai superpose la philosophie de \xc2\xab l'Ordinaire \xc2\xbb de Cavell aux th\xc3\xa9ories psychanalytiques actuelles pour amener dans le champ de vision de l'\xc3\xa9criture sur la subjectivit\xc3\xa9 ce que les soci\xc3\xa9t\xc3\xa9s et les individus tiennent \xc2\xab cach\xc3\xa9 au grand jour \xc2\xbb."]
['Roberts, Taylor Peyton and Zigarmi, Drea', 'The impact of dispositional cynicism on job-specific affect and work intentions', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Working from the Employee Work Passion Appraisal (EWPA) model, this article examines the relationship between employee dispositional cynicism, job-specific affect (i.e. positive and negative) and work intentions including intent to use discretionary effort, intent to perform, intent to endorse, intent to stay and intent to be an organisational citizen. An online survey generated participation from 747 current and potential clients of an international consulting company. To evaluate the fit of the data in accordance with the EWPA framework, structural equation modeling was conducted to test the overall fit of the proposed model and to examine the hypothesised relationships between constructs. Analyses confirmed correlations between dispositional cynicism and job-specific affect, supported notable relationships between positive job-specific affect and all work intentions, provided evidence for job-specific affect's mediation of cynicism and work intentions and uncovered a direct negative relationship between cynicism and intent to use organisational citizenship behaviour. Results suggest that state-specific workplace emotions are important for understanding the degree to which employee dispositional cynicism will ultimately influence most performance-related work intentions. However, independent of affect, employee cynicism may directly result in somewhat lower intentions to help others at work. Study limitations and practical implications for employee selection and training are considered."]
['Freelon, Deen', 'Online Civic Activism: Where Does It Fit?', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This is a response to the article by Ethan Zuckerman "New Media, New Civics?" published in this issue of Policy & Internet (2014: vol. 6, issue 2). Dissatisfaction with existing governments, a broad shift to "post-representative democracy" and the rise of participatory media are leading toward the visibility of different forms of civic participation. Zuckerman\'s article offers a framework to describe participatory civics in terms of theories of change used and demands places on the participant, and examines some of the implications of the rise of participatory civics, including the challenges of deliberation in a diverse and competitive digital public sphere. Deen Freelon responds.']
['Earl, Jennifer', 'Something Old and Something New: A Comment on "New Media, New Civics"', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This is a response to the article by Ethan Zuckerman "New Media, New Civics?" published in this issue of Policy & Internet (2014: vol. 6, issue 2). Dissatisfaction with existing governments, a broad shift to "post-representative democracy" and the rise of participatory media are leading toward the visibility of different forms of civic participation. Zuckerman\'s article offers a framework to describe participatory civics in terms of theories of change used and demands places on the participant, and examines some of the implications of the rise of participatory civics, including the challenges of deliberation in a diverse and competitive digital public sphere. Jennifer Earl responds.']
['Deslatte, Aaron', 'Reassessing "City Limits" in Urban Public Policy', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Urban public policy continues to explore the problems of urban growth and decline in a multidisciplinary fashion, focusing multiple theoretical lenses on questions of governance and division of authority as well as the practical applications for areas of policy specialization. This article reviews recent articles on income, housing, and racial/ethnic stratification, which share a common link of mobility-based prescriptions. It also reviews the role sustainability, equity, and cultural norms play in scholarship. The field is moving in a direction that integrates classical rational choice and sociological explanations for policies addressing sustainability and equity, the role of cultural identity in urban renewal efforts, and long-standing problems of citizen participation in government decision making.']
['Gil de Z\xc3\xba\xc3\xb1iga, Homero and Jung, Nakwon and Valenzuela, Sebasti\xc3\xa1n', "Social Media Use for News and Individuals' Social Capital, Civic Engagement and Political Participation", 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Recently, scholars tested how digital media use for informational purposes similarly contributes to foster democratic processes and the creation of social capital. Nevertheless, in the context of today's socially-networked-society and the rise of social media applications (i.e., Facebook) new perspectives need to be considered. Based on U.S. national data, results show that after controlling for demographic variables, traditional media use offline and online, political constructs (knowledge and efficacy), and frequency and size of political discussion networks, seeking information via social network sites is a positive and significant predictor of people's social capital and civic and political participatory behaviors, online and offline."]
['Rivera, Reynaldo and Santos, David', 'Civic and Political Participation of Children and Adolescents: A Lifestyle Analysis for Positive Youth Developmental Programs', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Social participation plays a key role in predicting positive youth development (PYD). As a previous step of this link, this research examined how children and adolescents' relational lifestyles influenced their participation in political and civic activities. This research provides a multi-dimensional approach to the study of children's social participation, based on six children's lifestyles factors (i.e. family dialogue, risky behaviours, cultural activities, civic values, family supervision and peer group relationships). Using data from an international survey that included 6130 participants (2198 Spanish, 3932 Italian, Mage\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa013.8), this study's results show that relational lifestyles (especially family dialogue and out-of-school cultural activities) are positively related to political and civic participation among children and adolescents. On the contrary, some peer group relationships decreased their social participation in those key dimensions for PYD. Limitations of the current study, implications for future policy decisions and applications to children social programs are discussed."]
['Farrell, Henry', 'New Problems, New Publics? Dewey and New Media', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This is a response to the article by Ethan Zuckerman "New Media, New Civics?" published in this issue of Policy & Internet (2014: vol. 6, issue 2). Dissatisfaction with existing governments, a broad shift to "post-representative democracy" and the rise of participatory media are leading toward the visibility of different forms of civic participation. Zuckerman\'s article offers a framework to describe participatory civics in terms of theories of change used and demands places on the participant, and examines some of the implications of the rise of participatory civics, including the challenges of deliberation in a diverse and competitive digital public sphere. Henry Farrell responds.']
['Smith, Keri E. Iyall', 'Teaching & Learning Guide for: A Review of the Study of the Political Status of Indigenous Peoples in the Global Context', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Author's introductionIndigenous peoples are racialized, but this is not the only defining element of their identity. The sociological study of indigenous peoples informs political sociology, as indigenous peoples are a type of non-state actor with a distinct perspective on the state and international governing organizations. The colonial power structure forced indigenous peoples to the margins of their homes and territories, which then changed rapidly around them without consideration of their voices. Today, indigenous peoples are recapturing the space to speak and they are challenging the societies that nearly overtook them and their lifeways.Author recommendsS. James Anaya 1996. Indigenous Peoples in International Law. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.This book examines the historical and contemporary issues regarding indigenous peoples and international law. Key topics include human rights, self-determination, and negotiations with states and international institutions. The appendix includes the text of selected international doctrine related to indigenous rights. Anaya now serves as the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms of indigenous peoples.Roxanne Dunbar-Oritz 2006. 'The First Decade of Indigenous Peoples at the United Nations.'Peace and Change 31: 58\xe2\x80\x9374. DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0130.2006.00342.xThis explores the role of indigenous peoples at the United Nations from 1974 to 1984. During this decade, the United Nations commissioned a study of the status of the world's indigenous peoples, a Conference on Indigenous Peoples of the Americas was held in Geneva, and the drafting of the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (approved by the General Assembly in 2007) began.Alexander Ewen 1994. Voice of Indigenous People. Santa Fe, NM: Clear Light Publishers.A publication including speeches by indigenous leaders to open the International Year of the World's Indigenous People at the United Nations on Human Rights Day in 1993. These speeches were given to a nearly empty General Assembly chambers.Ronald Niezen 2003. The Origins of Indigenism: Human Rights and the Politics of Identity. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press.Indigenous forms of resistance are distinguished from ethnic groups due to their political status. Niezen explores the emergence of the concept of indigenism, the international movement of indigenous peoples. The book examines the international response to indigenous peoples' assertions of sovereignty, diversity and commonalities across indigenous peoples, how assertions of self-determination influence indigenous-state and indigenous-international governing organization relations, and the political implications of indigenous peoples' assertions of self-determination. A brief concluding chapter names the key projects of indigenism: affirming local claims of difference, using the language and symbols of states in claims of self-determination, and embracing the universal concept of human rights to protect and develop identity.Y. N. Kly and D. Kly 2001. In Pursuit of the Right to Self-Determination: Collected Papers and Proceedings of the First International Conference on the Right to Self-Determination and the United Nations. Atlanta, GA: Clarity Press.This book is a collection of conference papers from the First International Conference on the Right to Self-Determination and the United Nations. It includes explorations of self-determination in many political contexts: internal autonomy, secession, assimilation, restorative justice, nomadic, and international law. It also includes papers on interventions in a diverse array of cases. Conference resolutions and the titles and web addresses of pertinent documents are included.Franke Wilmer 1993. The Indigenous Voice in World Politics. Newbury Park, CA: Sage Publications.Writing from a world-systems theory perspective, Wilmer explores indigenous perspectives on development, colonization, and civilization. She contrasts this with the priorities of indigenous peoples, particularly self-determination, and concludes with a consideration of indigenous voices in world politics. The book also includes many resources in its appendices, including a chronology of events related to indigenous activism, a list of international documents pertaining to indigenous peoples, and the organizations participating in the UN Working Group on Indigenous Populations meetings.Online materialsUN Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issueshttp://www.un.org/esa/socdev/unpfii/This is the official website of the United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues. It includes links to all of the forums held, along with the extensive documentation produced by each series of meetings. News headlines are posted regarding indigenous issues within the UN system, and the organization's newsletter The Message Stick, is available here. Films and webcasts can be viewed, which document indigenous participation in the UNPFII.International World Group for Indigenous Affairshttp://www.iwgia.orgThis organization publishes extensive reports on the status of indigenous peoples globally. There are annual reports and topical reports, as well, exploring political, social, and economic issues. The page also features a news blog which offers updates on indigenous issues, particularly political issues.The Indian Law Resource Centerhttp://www.indianlaw.orgThe Indian Law Resource Center is a news blog about the latest legal issues on indigenous lands around the world. It features many resources available regarding key legal decisions and publications by the Resource Center on their work to gain justice for indigenous peoples, along with the annual report of their current work.International Indian Treaty Councilhttp://www.treatycouncil.orgOne of the first organizations to work with the United Nations, the International Indian Treaty Council's website offers a host of documentation regarding indigenous peoples and the United Nations, including multiple drafts of the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. It also includes documentation on the many cases examined and fought by the International Indian Treaty Council. This website is an extensive reference for global indigenous claims. It also offers content in Spanish.Sample syllabusStudies of indigenous peoples and politics might contribute to units on justice or the state. This segment might also fit in a course on racial or ethnic diversity. I explore self-determination in greater detail as it is a key issue to many indigenous peoples and it encompasses everything from the right to territory to linguistic rights to rights to traditional medicine, and more. This segment might also fit into more advanced courses analyzing rights or inequality. I do not recommend readings for the Examining Self-Determination section as the readings will vary depending on your focus (topic or geography).Topics for lecture or DiscussionWeek I: Introduction and OverviewDefinitions, Problems, and Issues: who are indigenous peoples? What is their role in national and international politics?Reading:Keri Iyall Smith, 'A Review of the study of the Political Status of Indigenous Peoples in the Global Context', Sociology Compass 1/7 (2007), pp. 756\xe2\x80\x93774.Week II\xe2\x80\x93IV: Examining Self-DeterminationExplore case studies of self-determination at the local and global level. Exemplars might include: Native Hawaiians (Kanaka Maoli), Zapatistas, Inuit of Canada and the formation of the Nunavut Territories, and the role of indigenous peoples in the United Nations.Films and videosHomeland: four portraits of native actionThis film looks at the protection of American Indian homelands as a human rights issue and explores four different movements in Native America to protect the environment and indigenous lands: Penobscot, Gwich'in, Northern Cheyenne, and the Dine/Navajo people. The Penobscots are struggling with the state of Maine to sanction a polluting paper mill, the Gwich'in fight drilling in ANWR, the Northern Cheyenne are seeking to stop methane gas wells, and the Dine/Navajo are fighting to stop uranium mining.Peyote roadThis film explores the use of peyote by the Native American Church and the American perspective on the use of peyote. It follows the case of the landmark decision, Employment Devision v. Smith, along with the legislative change that followed this decision. The film also offers a look into the Native American Church with depictions of the role of peyote in ceremonial life.In the light of reverenceThis film explores sacred sites and the conflicts that American Indians face when trying to gain access to these sites to practice their religious beliefs. The film explores four different cases, including the Wintu seeking to gain access to Mt. Shasta and fighting the New Age believers who desecrate ceremonial lands, the Hopi dispute with private land-owners over a peak in the Four Corners region, and Lakota Sioux seeking to gain access to Mato Tipila/Devil's Tower.Adoption of the U.N. declaration on the rights of indigenous peoplesThis is a brief film that documents the occasion of the adoption of the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=azVhsiLNDZkFocus Questions\n* 1What are political challenges to indigenous peoples \xe2\x80\x93 locally and globally?\n* 2What might be political opportunities for indigenous peoples \xe2\x80\x93 locally and globally?\n* 3What strategies will allow indigenous peoples to attain their claims?\n* 4Who are the indigenous peoples in your area? What are their claims? How has your community responded?Project idea1. Socratic Dialogs. I use this technique to discuss complex problems from many perspectives. During the Socratic Dialog, the students do all of the talking, with minimal intervention on the part of the professor to referee the conversation as needed.During the term, we will often debate topics in Socratic Dialogs. In Socratic Dialogs, the class will respond to a well-formulated question that requires personal responses from participants. The responses to the question will lead to a broader discussion, allowing the class to arrive at a consensus. You will be graded on your participation in Socratic Dialogs, both as Respondents and Questioners. Active participation will be rewarded!Respondents: Respondents will work in pairs to respond to a general question posed by the professor. They must also study the text closely and research the issue at hand in order to be prepared for follow up questions from the professor and classmates. Respondents will be assigned a question one week in advance to allow them to prepare. Each student will act as a Respondent twice during the semester.Questioners: When you are not a respondent, your role is to contribute to the conversation actively by asking questions, offering additional responses to questions, etc ... Use your own experiences to guide you in offering responses or asking questions.Some sample Socratic Dialog Questions include:Are tribal courts \xe2\x88\x92 in their contemporary or historical forms \xe2\x80\x93 an exercise of tribal sovereignty?Are Native Americans sovereign, even as domestic dependent nations?Is tradition a relevant source of legal doctrine for tribal law in contemporary times?How can sacred sites be preserved and sacred practices remain legal, given that American Indians exist within a foreign culture and state?Land has been called an engine of sovereignty. How can land \xe2\x80\x93 scarred by colonial history \xe2\x80\x93 also be an engine of justice for American Indians?2. Take Home Exam QuestionsIn my classes on indigenous issues I have used take-home exams in the past. I find this to be a good way to keep the students thinking about issues as they are working, which is always my goal when writing examinations. These exams are designed to help students think creatively and critically about course readings, using them in a way that is different than what we did in class. These two questions focus on American Indian tribes and the American legal system, and the conflicts between these two political bodies.A. Why do we have a course that examines the clash between American Indian and American criminal justice systems? Provide at least three reasons. Use citations to support your claims and examples to illustrate your points. Be sure that you always explain why or how \xe2\x80\x93 do not assume that I know what you mean.B. As we learned at the beginning of class, legal structures are very important tools for communities, allowing them to express and protect their values. How does the clash of cultures continue to threaten sovereignty and simultaneously empower the authority of the American federal government? What can tribes do to escape the 'clash' with their sovereignty intact?"]
['Borden, Lynne and Serido, Joyce', 'From program participant to engaged citizen: a developmental journey', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'American youth who participate in both school-based and community-based programs during high school remain more civically engaged than their contemporaries throughout adulthood. However, few studies have examined the developmental processes through which participation in a youth directed program promotes civic responsibility. In this qualitative study, 23 males and 9 females took part in one of five focus groups to talk about their experiences as members of a youth empowerment center in the southwest. The results reveal a three-phased process model of development from program participant to civically engaged youth. Each of the three phases, participation, connection and expansion, is explained using the words and examples provided by the youth. Implications for application and future research are discussed. \xc2\xa9 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.']
["PUHL, REBECCA M. and LATNER, JANET D. and O'BRIEN, KERRY S. and LUEDICKE, JOERG and DANIELSDOTTIR, SIGRUN and SALAS, XIMENA RAMOS", 'Potential Policies and Laws to Prohibit Weight Discrimination: Public Views from 4 Countries', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Policy Points:\n\n\n* Policies and legal protections against weight-based discrimination have broad public support in 4 nations where this discrimination is widely documented.\n\n* Public support was strongest for policies and laws that would prohibit employers from denying employment, assigning lower wages, and refusing promotion to people based on their weight status. Women and individuals with higher weight expressed the greatest support.\n\n* Weight discrimination is common in numerous life settings, creating social and economic inequities and adverse health outcomes. Policies and legal measures protecting against such discrimination need to be developed and implemented in the United States and elsewhere and would have considerable public support.\n\n\n\nContext\nPeople viewed as "overweight" or "obese" are vulnerable to weight-based discrimination, creating inequities and adverse health outcomes. Given the high rates of obesity recorded globally, studies documenting weight discrimination in multiple countries, and an absence of legislation to address this form of discrimination, research examining policy remedies across different countries is needed. Our study provides the first multinational examination of public support for policies and legislation to prohibit weight discrimination.\n\nMethods\nIdentical online surveys were completed by 2,866 adults in the United States, Canada, Australia, and Iceland. We assessed public support for potential laws to prohibit weight-based discrimination, such as adding body weight to existing civil rights statutes, extending disability protections to persons with obesity, and instituting legal measures to prohibit employers from discriminating against employees because of body weight. We examined sociodemographic and weight-related characteristics predicting support for antidiscrimination policies, and the differences in these patterns across countries.\n\nFindings\nThe majority of participants in the United States, Canada, and Australia agreed that their government should have specific laws in place to prohibit weight discrimination. At least two-thirds of the participants in all 4 countries expressed support for policies that would make it illegal for employers to refuse to hire, assign lower wages, deny promotions, or terminate qualified employees because of body weight. Women and participants with higher body weight expressed more support for antidiscrimination measures. Beliefs about the causes of obesity were also related to support for these laws.\n\nConclusions\nPublic support for legal measures to prohibit weight discrimination can be found in the United States, Canada, Australia, and Iceland, especially for laws to remedy this discrimination in employment. Our findings provide important information for policymakers and interest groups both nationally and internationally and can help guide discussions about policy priorities to reduce inequities resulting from weight discrimination.']
['Williams, John', 'Democracy and Regulating Autonomous Weapons: Biting the Bullet while Missing the Point?', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Public policy debate around regulating emerging autonomous weapons systems is vital, but in danger of neglecting crucial challenges. Current analysis focuses around efforts to define autonomy and to incorporate 'autonomous' systems within established regulatory systems, particularly international law and arms control treaties and conventions. This emphasises two key decision moments as the focus of regulation: the initiation of hostilities and target engagement, reflecting the just war tradition that provides the intellectual backdrop for much of this debate. This article suggests this underestimates the significance of the potential consequences of such weapons systems, arguing that this consensus disguises the extent to which autonomy can only be meaningfully engaged within the specific context of the circumstances when such systems may be deployed, and that the speed of decision-making by such systems will outstrip regulatory endeavours focused on the two decision moments. This paper thus argues that only wide-ranging debate, especially within democracies leading the development of such systems, about the relationship of autonomous systems to the nature and purpose of military violence and underpinning democratic values and principles, can adequately address the challenge presented by the emergence of contextually autonomous weapons."]
['Katsonis, Maria and Botros, Andrew', 'Digital Government: A Primer and Professional Perspectives', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Digital technology is a critical enabler of public administration reforms. It can improve the efficiency and productivity of government agencies and allow citizens to transact with government anytime, anywhere. It can also deepen the democratic process, empowering citizens to participate in policy formulation. In this article Andrew Botros, the director of Expressive Engineering, and Maria Katsonis, from the Department of Premier and Cabinet (Victoria), explore the challenges of the digital world for the public sector. Katsonis presents a primer on digital government tracing its evolution from the e-government movement of the 1990s to Government 2.0 in the 2000s to today's digital-by-default agenda. As technology and its role in public sector reform have progressed, so too have the governance, cultural, and leadership challenges deepened. Botros examines NSW approach to open innovation with the Premier's Innovation Initiative in NSW, the state's open data experience, and Transport for NSW and its management of public transport data. He argues NSW's approach involves a significant innovation trade-off, requiring fresh thinking in digital-era collaboration."]
['Mannarini, Terri and Fedi, Angela and Trippetti, Stefania', 'Public involvement: How to encourage citizen participation', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'The study was aimed at identifying the impact of a pool of variables on the willingness of the participants in five consultative arenas (Open Space Technology) to become involved in future experiences of civic engagement. The study also intended to verify whether such willingness varied among subgroups of participants. In total, 194 participants (49.5% men, 50.5% women; mean age\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8937.04) were recruited during five OSTs held in Italy between May and November 2008 and asked to fill in a questionnaire composed of the following measures: perceived costs and benefits, emotions, sense of community, trust in institutions and need for cognitive closure. Findings suggested that the setting-related variables\xe2\x80\x94namely the perception of costs and benefits and the arousal of positive feelings\xe2\x80\x94were more influential than the community-related variables, such as sense of community and trust in institutions. Indications and suggestions for the design, implementation and evaluation of participatory settings were discussed. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.']
['Astuti, Rini and McGregor, Andrew', "Governing carbon, transforming forest politics: A case study of Indonesia's REDD+ Task Force", 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "The Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation Plus (REDD+) programme seeks to reshape the way we value, govern and interact with forests. Rather than managing forests according to interests in timber, conservation, land or livelihoods, REDD+ encourages forms of forest management that prioritise carbon. While international negotiations are shaping the rules of the programme, how it takes place on the ground will depend on its interpretation and implementation in different places. In this paper, we are interested in how the REDD+ Task Force (Satgas\xe2\x80\x85REDD+), an ad hoc body formed by presidential decree to design and implement REDD+ readiness activities in Indonesia, has attempted to mainstream the programme from 2010 to 2013. We develop a governmentality approach to focus on how the Task Force sought to introduce REDD+ carbon rationalities to forest politics. Based on extended ethnographic research, we identify three strategies: adopting and promoting the carbon discourses circulating among global REDD+ communities; making carbon visible and governable through mapping technologies; and implementing participatory technologies to encourage pro-REDD+ subjectivities. In some ways, the Task Force has been successful in building awareness about forest carbon among forest stakeholders in Indonesia. National civil society organisations, in particular, appear to be supportive of REDD+; however, they emphasise 'co-benefits' framed as 'Beyond Carbon', informed by social and environmental justice. For others, however, forests remain sources of timber and land, and new strategies are required if REDD+ is to have substantial impacts on forest governance in Indonesia. The Task Force's efforts reveal the difficult and contested processes through which global climate change programmes come to be embedded in national arenas."]
['Wiggins, Andrea', 'Technology and work practices in citizen science', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Citizen science is a form of research collaboration that actively involves the public in scientific research to address real-world problems. Research designed specifically for public participation is a form of information work for which the design of tasks and supporting technologies for volunteers is critically important to the scientific outcomes. This study examines the relationship between information and communication technologies (ICTs) and work practices, with the goal of generating insights to inform the design and management of cyberinfrastructure for citizen science. Comparing three projects with similar volunteer participation activities but varied organizational structures highlighted the importance of project goals and resources in the adoption of technologies, and strategies for using ICT to support ongoing participation and quality assurance.']
['Tomas, Louisa and Ritchie, Stephen M. and Tones, Megan', 'Attitudinal impact of hybridized writing about a socioscientific issue', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "The development of scientifically literate citizens remains an important priority of science education; however, growing evidence of students' disenchantment with school science continues to challenge the realization of this aim. This triangulation mixed methods study investigated the learning experiences of 152 9th grade students as they participated in an online science-writing project on the socioscientific issue of biosecurity. Students wrote a series of hybridized scientific narratives, or BioStories, that integrate scientific information about biosecurity with narrative storylines. The students completed an online Likert-style questionnaire, the BioQuiz, which examined selected aspects of their attitudes toward science and science learning, prior to their participation in the project, and upon completion of the writing tasks. Statistical analyses of these results and interview data obtained from participating students suggest that hybridized writing about a socioscientific issue developed more positive attitudes toward science and science learning, particularly in terms of the students' interest and enjoyment. Implications for research and teaching are also discussed. \xc2\xa9 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Res Sci Teach 48: 878\xe2\x80\x93900, 2011"]
['Belcher, Oliver and Martin, Lauren L', 'Ethnographies of closed doors: conceptualising openness and closure in US immigration and military institutions', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "In this article, we discuss our experience conducting ethnographic and archival research on illiberal processes within nominally liberal states \xe2\x80\x93 in this case, the USA. We focus on two different institutional practices based on our respective fieldwork: (1) counterinsurgency training of civilian and military personnel in Indiana for deployment in southern Afghanistan and (2) immigration enforcement, particularly immigrant family detention. Building on Koch's (2013, this issue) argument for conceptualising closed contexts over il/liberal dichotomies, we analyse how liberal norms of open information, documentation and archiving function as governmental technologies. We argue that immigration and military agencies are not best understood as intentional, conspiratorial agencies bent on obscurity; rather, we show how a range of state and non-state actors produce particular kinds of knowledge about US federal agency practices. By working through examples from our respective research projects, we show how seeking access to state agencies requires researchers' participation in the bounding of state and civil society. Rather than accept those boundaries, we argue that researchers in nominally liberal and illiberal states alike should pay close attention to how governmental technologies of openness and closure are woven together."]
['Hildebrandt, Mireille', 'Law as Information in the Era of Data-Driven Agency', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "This contribution introduces the mathematical theory of information that 'informs' computer systems, the internet and all that has been built upon it. The aim of the author is to invite lawyers to reconsider the grammar and alphabet of modern positive law and of the Rule of Law, in the face of the alternative grammar and alphabet of a data-driven society. Instead of either embracing or rejecting the technological transitions that reconfigure the operations of the law, this article argues that lawyers should collaborate with the computer scientists that engineer and design the affordances of our new onlife world. This is crucial if we want to sustain democratic participation in law-making, contestability of legal effect and transparency of how citizens may be manipulated by the invisible computational backbone of our rapidly and radically changing world."]
['Realo, Anu and Allik, J\xc3\xbcri', 'Teaching and Learning Guide for: On the Relationship between Social Capital and Individualism\xe2\x80\x93Collectivism', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "This guide accompanies the following article: Anu Realo and J\xc3\xbcri Allik, 'On the Relationship between Social Capital and Individualism\xe2\x80\x93Collectivism', Social and Personality Psychology Compass 3 (2009): 1\xe2\x80\x9316, doi: 10.1111/j.1751-9004.2009.00226.xAuthors' IntroductionBoth social capital and individualism\xe2\x80\x93collectivism (IC) have been, and still are, popular and well-researched constructs in social sciences. Many theorists have argued that individualism poses a threat to social cohesion and communal association. Other researchers believe that growth of individuality, autonomy and self-sufficiency are necessary conditions for the development of social solidarity and cooperation. Recent research suggests that countries with higher level of social capital (where people believe that most people can be trusted) are also more individualistic, emphasizing the importance of independence, personal accomplishments and freedom to choose one's own goals. In societies where trust is limited to the nuclear family or kinship alone, people have lower levels of social capital. Social capital increases as the radius of trust widens to encompass a larger number of people and social networks, bridging the 'gap' between the family and state.Authors RecommendPortes, A. (1998). Social capital: Its origins and applications in modern sociology. Annual Review of Sociology, 24, 1\xe2\x80\x9325.This article reviews the origins and definitions of social capital in the writings of Bourdieu, Coleman and Putnam among other authors. It distinguishes four sources of social capital and examines their dynamics. Although the original theoretical development of the concept focused on the individual as the unit of analysis, the concept of social capital was later extended to a group level where it became an attribute of communities and nations. The final sections of the article describe this conceptual stretch and examine its limitations.Putnam, R. D. (2000). Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community. New York, NJ: Simon and Schuster.In this groundbreaking book, Putnam surveys the decline of 'social capital' in the United States of America since 1950. Putnam shows how people in U.S. have become increasingly disconnected from family, friends, neighbours and democratic structures and how this decline of social capital may result in the collapse of the society because levels of trust and civic involvement have, as many studies have demonstrated, a significant impact on human life outcomes.Fukuyama, F. (1995). Trust: The Social Virtues and their Creation of Prosperity. New York, NJ: Free Press.In this book, Fukuyama examines a wide range of national cultures to understand and explain the underlying principles that foster economic and social prosperity. He argues that social capital may be as important as physical capital \xe2\x80\x93 prosperous countries tend to be those where business relations between people can be conducted informally and flexibly on the basis of social trust or cooperative behaviour based upon shared norms.Hofstede, G. (2001). Culture's Consequences: Comparing Values, Behaviours, Institutions and Organizations across Nations (Vol. 2). Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.Hofstede's book is a must read for anyone interested in psychological, historical, or anthropological approach to cross-cultural comparisons. The book explores cultural differences in values, focusing on the five dimensions of culture, including individualism\xe2\x80\x93collectivism.Allik, J., & Realo, A. (2004). Individualism\xe2\x80\x93collectivism and social capital. Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology, 35, 29\xe2\x80\x9349.This article gives a comprehensive historical overview of the emergence of individualism and the tension between the individual and the collective. It also explores the relationship between individualism\xe2\x80\x93collectivism and the concept of modernity. The authors argue that individualism in psychology is related not only to the idea of modernization but also to the concept of Westernism or Americanization. In the empirical section of this article, they reanalysed available data on the relationship between individualism\xe2\x80\x93collectivism and social capital within one country (the United States) and across 42 countries. The results support Durkheim's view that when individuals become more autonomous and seemingly liberated from social bonds, they actually become even more dependent on society.Oyserman, D., Coon, H. M., & Kemmelmeier, M. (2002). Rethinking individualism and collectivism: Evaluation of theoretical assumptions and meta-analyses. Psychological Bulletin, 128, 3\xe2\x80\x9372.This article provides a theoretical and empirical overview of individualism and collectivism as cultural orientations. It highlights plausible consequences of individualism and collectivism and provides a guide to the study and assessment of individualism and collectivism based on the past 20\xc2\xa0years of usage. It provides the review of the literature on implications of individualism\xe2\x80\x93collectivism for basic psychological functioning such as self-concept, well-being, attribution, relationality, etc.Lukes, S. (1971). The meanings of individualism. Journal of the History of Ideas, 32, 45\xe2\x80\x9366.Being merely a 19th-century expression, the term of 'individualism' has a rich semantic and cultural history, comprising 'the most heterogeneous ideas possible' as said by Max Weber in his book The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism in 1904. In his article, Steven Lukes discusses the various meanings of individualism in different countries and in different schools of thought.Online Materials1. Social Capital Gatewayhttp://www.socialcapitalgateway.org/According to its founder and editor, Fabio Sabatini (University of Siena, Italy), the Social Capital Gateway is a personal, nonprofit initiative. It was developed with an aim to (1) provide useful resources for researchers, teachers, students and practitioners interested in the study of social capital and other related topics, like poverty and development as well as to (2) promote discussion and ideas exchange on these topics. The Web site provides comprehensive and up-to-date information about journal articles, books, postgraduate programs and fellowships, forthcoming conferences on social capital.2. The World Bank Webpage on Social Capitalhttp://go.worldbank.org/C0QTRW4QF0This Web site provides an overview of the theoretical aspects of social capital as well as of the measuring tools that have been developed to measure social capital. It also indexes journal articles, publications and reports, and other Web sites about social capital. The Web site has a link to Social Capital Document Library which includes hundreds of abstracts of documents on social capital which will be updated and supplemented periodically.3. The Saguaro Seminar: Civic Engagement in Americahttp://www.hks.harvard.edu/saguaro/index.htmAccording to the initiator of the Saguaro Seminar, Robert Putnam (John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University), the project focuses on expanding what we know about our levels of trust and community engagement and on developing strategies and efforts to increase this engagement. The mission of the seminar is both to improve social capital measurement and the availability of social capital data and to undertake analysis of building social capital in a changing environment.4. Geert Hofstede\xe2\x84\xa2 Cultural Dimensionshttp://www.geert-hofstede.com/This Web site provides extensive information about Geert Hofstede cultural dimensions, including individualism\xe2\x80\x93collectivism. It reviews books, articles and magazines applicable to cross-national comparisons and lists them there.5. World Values Surveyhttp://www.worldvaluessurvey.org/This Web site provides information about the World Values Survey, the world's most comprehensive investigation of political and sociocultural change. The World Values Survey is a global network of social scientists who have surveyed the basic values and beliefs of the publics of more than 80 societies, on all six inhabited continents over the past 30\xc2\xa0years.Sample Syllabus (a Part)Topics for Lecture & Discussion.Weeks I\xe2\x80\x93II: Individualism\xe2\x80\x93CollectivismI A Short History of Individualism\xe2\x80\x93Collectivism, Emergence of Individualism, Individualism in the United States.II Individualism\xe2\x80\x93Collectivism in Cross-Cultural Psychology, Measurement of Individualism\xe2\x80\x93Collectivism, A Critique of Individualism\xe2\x80\x93Collectivism.Reading:Buss, A. (2000). The evolution of Western individualism. Religion, 30, 1\xe2\x80\x9325.Kagit\xc3\xa7ibasi, \xc3\x87. (1997). Individualism and collectivism. In J. W. Berry, Y. H. Poortinga, J. Pandey, P. R. Dasen, T. S. Saraswathi, M. H. Segall & \xc3\x87. Kagit\xc3\xa7ibasi (Eds.), Handbook of Cross-Cultural Psychology (Vol. 2, pp. 1\xe2\x80\x9349). Boston, MA: Allyn & Bacon.Lukes, S. (1971). The meanings of individualism. Journal of the History of Ideas,32, 45\xe2\x80\x9366.Oyserman, D., Coon, H. M., & Kemmelmeier, M. (2002). Rethinking individualism and collectivism: Evaluation of theoretical assumptions and meta-analyses. Psychological Bulletin, 128, 3\xe2\x80\x9372.Realo, A., Koido, K., Ceulemans, E., & Allik, J. (2002). Three components of individualism. European Journal of Personality, 16, 163\xe2\x80\x93184.Vandello, J. A., & Cohen, D. (1999). Patterns of individualism and collectivism across the United States. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 77, 279\xe2\x80\x93292.More advanced reading:Bellah, R. N. (1985). Habits of the heart: Individualism and Commitment in American life. Berkeley: University of California Press.Hofstede, G. (2001). Culture's Consequences: Comparing Values, Behaviours, Institutions and Organizations Across Nations (2nd edn). Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.De Tocqueville, A. (1945). Democracy in America. New York, NJ: Alfred A. Knopf Inc. (original book published in 1835/1840).Triandis, H. C. (1995). Individualism & Collectivism. Boulder: Westview Press.Weeks III\xe2\x80\x93IV Social CapitalIII Social Capital, What is It? Theories, Social Capital in the United States, Measurement of Social Capital.IV Forms of Social Capital, Privatization of Social Capital, Changing Nature of Social Capital.Reading:Bourdieu, P. (1986). The forms of capital. In J. G. Richardson (Ed.), Handbook of Theory and Research for the Sociology of Education (pp. 241\xe2\x80\x93258). New York: Greenwood.Coleman, J. S. (1988). Social capital in the creation of human capital. American Journal of Sociology, 94, S95\xe2\x80\x93S120.Inglehart, R., & Baker, W. E. (2000). Modernization, cultural change, and the persistence of traditional values. American Sociological Review, 65, 19\xe2\x80\x9351.Paxton, P. (1999). Is social capital declining in the United States? A multiple indicator assessment. American Journal of Sociology, 105, 88\xe2\x80\x93127.Portes, A. (1998). Social capital: Its origins and applications in modern sociology. Annual Review of Sociology, 24, 1\xe2\x80\x9325.Putnam, R. D. (1995). Bowling alone: America's declining social capital. Journal of Democracy, 6, 65\xe2\x80\x9378.More advanced reading:Fukuyama, F. (1995). Trust: The Social Virtues and the Creation of Prosperity. New York: Simon & Schuster.Putnam, R. D. (Ed.) (2002). Democracies in Flux: The Evolution of Social Capital in Contemporary Society. New York: Oxford University Press.Rothstein, B. (2005). Social Traps and the Problem of Trust. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.Week V Individualism\xe2\x80\x93Collectivism and Social CapitalThe Relationship between Individualism\xe2\x80\x93Collectivism and Social Capital.Reading:Allik, J., & Realo, A. (2004). Individualism\xe2\x80\x93collectivism and social capital. Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology, 35, 29\xe2\x80\x9349.Kemmelmeier, M., Jambor, E. E., & Letner, J. (2006). Individualism and good works: Cultural variation in giving and volunteering across the United States. Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology, 37, 327\xe2\x80\x93344.Realo, A., & Allik, J. (2009). On the relationship between social capital and individualism\xe2\x80\x93collectivism. Social and Personality Psychology Compass, 3, 1\xe2\x80\x9316.Focus Questions\n* 1\xe2\x80\x82Individualism\xe2\x80\x93collectivism concepts have been in the limelight in cross-cultural psychology since the beginning of the 1980s. What has been said in a criticism of the individualism\xe2\x80\x93collectivism research movement?\n* 2\xe2\x80\x82What is social capital? How can it be measured?\n* 3\xe2\x80\x82What are some examples of social capital? Can you bring examples from your own neighbourhood?\n* 4\xe2\x80\x82What is the relationship between social capital and individualism\xe2\x80\x93collectivism? How can it be explained?"]
['FINGERHUT, ADAM W.', "Straight Allies: What Predicts Heterosexuals' Alliance With the LGBT Community?1", 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Despite their prominence in civil rights movements, out-group allies have been understudied. The current research examined out-group alliance, focusing on predictors of heterosexuals' advocacy for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights. Heterosexuals who were recruited through an online panel of research participants completed a survey containing measures of empathy, out-group contact, gender, education, and attitudes toward gays and lesbians. Additionally, participants indicated whether they had engaged in several allied behaviors (e.g., donating money for LGBT causes). Women, educated individuals, and those with gay and lesbian friends were more likely to be allies. Additionally, alliance was greatest among individuals lower in prejudice and simultaneously higher in positivity toward gays and lesbians. Implications regarding intergroup relations and future research are discussed."]
['Ocampo, Jos\xc3\xa9 Antonio and G\xc3\xb3mez-Arteaga, Natalie', 'Accountability in International Governance and the 2030 Development Agenda', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'After revisiting the concept of accountability in national governance, this paper analyzes the challenges of its application to international governance, including an assessment of some of the modalities it has assumed. It then proposes a bottom-up multilayered and multistakeholder accountability framework for the 2030 Development Agenda: national follow-up processes at the base of the pyramid, consultations and possibly peer reviews at the regional level, a global accountability system led by the High-Level Political Forum (HLPF) and supported by the ECOSOC system, United Nations and other international organizations, and active participation by civil society and the private sector with their own accountability frameworks in place.']
['Robinson, Philip A and Macnaghten, Phil and Banks, Sarah and Bickersteth, Janie and Kennedy, Angela and Richardson, Yvonne and Shaw, Sue and Sylvestre, Ingrid', "Responsible scientists and a citizens' panel: new storylines for creative engagement between science and the public", 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Uncertainties over emerging technologies and their potential effect on society and the environment often lead to controversy between scientists, policymakers and the public. Opening up the debates and involving citizens and social scientists early in the process of developing new technology is one way of responding to this issue of governance. By doing so, the hope is that the ethical implications and acceptability of new science can be more carefully considered and framed in a responsible and democratised context. To explore an example of aspiration in practice, a series of interdisciplinary public engagement events was organised at Durham University under the title New Storylines for Living with Environmental Change: Citizens' Perspectives. In this commentary we report on one of these events, a one-day workshop entitled Responsible Science and Public Engagement, where a citizens' panel aimed to explore ways of conducting deliberative engagement with scientists using the creative arts and a scientific dilemmas caf\xc3\xa9 format."]
['Klocker Larsen, Rasmus', 'Critical systems thinking for the facilitation of conservation planning in Philippine coastal management', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "In Critical Systems Thinking, the notion of boundary judgements represents a constructionist view on knowing as the bounding of components of reality into knowable objects. Cognitive boundary judgements determine observations (facts) and evaluations (values), which knowers appreciate and act in relation to. Werner Ulrich's method of dialogical boundary critique and the framework of Critical Systems Heuristics (CSH) are intended to enable citizen participation in Western democracies through acknowledgement of legitimate competencies in public and corporate dialogues. This paper investigates the application of this methodology in Philippine coastal resource management. The conclusions are based on stakeholder-based action planning carried out between November 2007 and May 2008 in the Babuyan group of islands, bounded by the Balintang and Babuyan Channels. It argues that dialogical boundary critique requires significant adaptation if it is to provide a liberating language for participants in Philippine resource management dilemmas shaped by multiple and conflicting knowledge claims under conditions of significant controversy. Copyright \xc2\xa9 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd."]
['Hedesstr\xc3\xb6m, Ted Martin and Sveds\xc3\xa4ter, Henrik and G\xc3\xa4rling, Tommy', 'Na\xc3\xafve Diversification in the Swedish Premium Pension Scheme: Experimental Evidence', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "In the Swedish Premium Pension Scheme (PPS) all citizens in paid employment allocate part of their public pension savings to mutual funds. In so doing they tend to distribute their choices maximally across different stock fund categories. It is hypothesised that this reflects the na\xc3\xafve application of a variety-inducing diversification heuristic. The results of two experiments simulating choices of fund categories in the PPS support this hypothesis by showing that participating undergraduates chose stock funds investing in overlapping and non-overlapping markets or industries in a way demonstrating failure to take into account covariation among fund returns. Administrators of the PPS and similar defined-contribution pension plans should provide participants with comprehensive advice on how to diversify their investment.Dans le r\xc3\xa9gime de retraite su\xc3\xa9dois (PPS), tous les citoyens ayant un emploi salari\xc3\xa9 allouent une part de l'\xc3\xa9pargne de leur retraite publique \xc3\xa0 des fonds d'investissements. Ce faisant, ils tendent majoritairement \xc3\xa0 r\xc3\xa9partir leurs choix dans diff\xc3\xa9rentes cat\xc3\xa9gories de fonds. On a fait l'hypoth\xc3\xa8se que cela refl\xc3\xa8te l'application na\xc3\xafve d'une heuristique de la diversification. Les r\xc3\xa9sultats de deux exp\xc3\xa9rimentations simulant des choix entre diff\xc3\xa9rentes cat\xc3\xa9gories de fonds pour le PPS confirment cette hypoth\xc3\xa8se : les sujets (\xc3\xa9tudiants) ont choisi des fonds en actions et devaient investir sur des march\xc3\xa9s ou dans des branches industrielles relevant ou non du m\xc3\xaame secteur \xc3\xa9conomique et cela d'une fa\xc3\xa7on qui mettait en \xc3\xa9vidence leur incapacit\xc3\xa9\xc3\xa0 prendre en consid\xc3\xa9ration le fait que le retour sur investissement de diff\xc3\xa9rents fonds pouvait \xc3\xaatre li\xc3\xa9. Les administrateurs du PPS et de plans de pensions avec versements programm\xc3\xa9s devraient fournir aux participants des conseils avis\xc3\xa9s sur la fa\xc3\xa7on de diversifier leur investissement."]
['Breit, Eric and Salomon, Robert', "Making the Technological Transition \xe2\x80\x93 Citizens' Encounters with Digital Pension Services", 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "We examine in this article the impact of digitization on the provision of public services by studying how citizens experience the use of web portals in their pension planning. Based on focus groups and user test material, we elucidate five critical phases that each operate as an obstacle for citizens' further engagement in the digital self-service process: interest, access, comprehension, reflection and support. We argue that these phases and the obstacles they entail illustrate a transition away from a situation in which control and agency over the quality of public services is embedded in a dyadic relationship between citizens and frontline personnel, and to a situation characterized by more complex relations between citizens, the front line, and the digital infrastructure. We argue that this transition implies that citizens are required to possess a new type of competence that contains both financial and digital skills. Citizens who are unable to develop or acquire such competence are likely to be disadvantaged by the services. Lastly, we argue that these developments pose significant challenges for public administrations to ensure the overall quality of the public services."]
['Gardner, K. and Bridges, S. and Walmsley, D.', 'International peer review in undergraduate dentistry: enhancing reflective practice in an online community of practice', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "To stimulate and enhance student learning in the areas of global citizenship, critical reflection and e-learning, an online international peer review using a purpose-built web platform, has been developed between international dental schools. Since its inception in 2007, n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa06 dental schools from six different countries have participated with n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0384 dental students engaged in online peer review. Project development was conceptually analysed utilising Lave and Wenger's notion of a community of practice (CoP). Analysis drew on the three core components within the CoP organising framework: domain, community and practice. All three components were evident in building project identity. The domain focused on both curriculum and institutional co-operation. The community was evident for both educators and students. Finally, analysis of practice was found to be significant in terms of sustained interaction and collaboration. Empirical evaluation is recommended as the next phase of project design."]
['Feldman, David L. and Sengupta, Ashmita and Stuvick, Lindsey and Stein, Eric and Pettigrove, Vin and Arora, Meenakshi', 'Governance issues in developing and implementing offsets for water management benefits: Can preliminary evaluation guide implementation effectiveness?', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This article explores governance issues in developing innovative pollutant offset programs by focusing on a case study being piloted at the Gisborne Recycled Water Plant in Jackson Creek, a rural subcatchment of the Maribyrnong River north of Melbourne, Australia. The article offers preliminary lessons from the ongoing design and anticipated challenges facing this innovative program based on reflections from the literature and project progress to-date. This case exemplifies a form of adaptive governance\xe2\x80\x94an approach well suited to achieving broad sustainability objectives\xe2\x80\x94and for which an early assessment is both appropriate and opportune. Adaptive governance is characterized by governmental collaboration with civil society groups, social learning through public participation, and experimentation leading to more flexible policy outcomes. Early assessment affords the possibility of midcourse corrections, drawing on experience acquired elsewhere. We contend that the approach being developed in Victoria through this pilot program has implications beyond the use of recycled wastewater for achieving various social objectives. It may also contribute to the development of an expansive water quality offset framework applicable to point source discharges, nonpoint source pollution, and sewerage overspills. Moreover, the approach can be applied to design of offset systems elsewhere\xe2\x80\x94with appropriate economic savings and effective application to multiple water quality challenges if potential problems are discerned early. WIREs Water 2015, 2:121\xe2\x80\x93130. doi: 10.1002/wat2.1061For further resources related to this article, please visit the WIREs website.Conflict of interest: The authors have declared no conflicts of interest for this article. The authors gratefully acknowledge financial support from the U.S. National Science Foundation Partnerships for International Research and Education (OISE-1243543)']
['Milan, Stefania and Hintz, Arne', 'Networked Collective Action and the Institutionalized Policy Debate: Bringing Cyberactivism to the Policy Arena?', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'New forms of networked action and informal collaboration are challenging traditional notions of civil society. Based on the proliferation of new technologies, and spurred by the spread of trans-border delocalized communities and the increasing disillusionment with traditional forms of political organization, civic action is becoming increasingly flexible, temporary, and elusive. This type of nontraditionally organized collective action often stays below the radar of public discourse, unless it is propelled to the spotlight because of international political developments such as the WikiLeaks case (and the related actions by the cyberactivist network Anonymous) and the mass protests in Northern Africa and the Middle East (and the role of social networking tools in these uprisings). In this article, we investigate the interactions and (in)compatibilities of Internet-based networked collective action with institutionalized spaces of policy debate. We begin by characterizing online networked action as an emerging form of organized civil society, focusing on the realm of cyberactivists who are building and using cyber-infrastructure ("grassroots tech groups"). In particular, we examine their values, identity features, and organizational forms. Based on this analysis, we explore two dimensions in which cyberactivism challenges established forms of institutionalized policy debate: the structural dimension and the realm of action repertoires. We ask whether these new forms of civil society are structurally compatible with current multistakeholder governance, and we discuss their repertoires of action with regard to policy advocacy and policy interventions, and thus the level and type of their engagement with governance processes and institutions.']
['Corner, Adam and Pidgeon, Nick and Parkhill, Karen', "Perceptions of geoengineering: public attitudes, stakeholder perspectives, and the challenge of 'upstream' engagement", 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "Geoengineering\xe2\x80\x94the deliberate large-scale manipulation of the planetary environment to counteract anthropogenic climate change\xe2\x80\x94is receiving an increasing amount of attention from academics, policy and civil society stakeholders, and members of the general public. This article reviews the available literature on perceptions of geoengineering, including public attitudes and stakeholder perspectives. We describe some of the challenges of engaging with these audiences at such an 'upstream' phase in the development of geoengineering technologies. We conclude with reflections on the importance of eliciting public and stakeholder views, despite the challenges associated with upstream engagement, and identify a number of key research priorities for those involved in upstream engagement on geoengineering. WIREs Clim Change 2012 doi: 10.1002/wcc.176For further resources related to this article, please visit the WIREs website."]
['Gerencser, Mark', 'Re-imagining Infrastructure*', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'A senior executive of Booz Allen Hamilton and co-author of a business bestseller called Megacommunities argues that the United States is locked into an obsolete pattern of dealing with infrastructure investment, even as the country\'s population growth and technology have raced ahead. Three of America\'s basic "lifeline" infrastructures\xe2\x80\x94energy, transportation, and water\xe2\x80\x94are nearing the end of their useful operating lives and in desperate need of modernization. U.S. capital spending on infrastructure has been inadequate, amounting to less than 2% of GDP, as compared to 9% in China and 5% in India.But if infrastructure renewal will be costly, money is not the biggest obstacle. History shows that modernizing existing infrastructures tends to be even more challenging than creating new ones because of the drag caused by legacy hardware and the associated human "software." And so the real problems are conceptual, institutional, and political\xe2\x80\x94problems whose solutions demand transformational vision and leadership that will encourage collaborative participation by both the public and private sectors.What is lacking, then, is an oversight and coordination mechanism that restores government\'s traditional integrating role without creating either new monopolies or a larger, more centralized government. To that end the author issues four imperatives:First is the need to rethink the form and function of our old infrastructures.Second is the need for design principles that make future infrastructures robust and adaptable as technology advances, funding changes, and the needs of our citizens evolve.Third is the need for leadership that succeeds by convening, integrating, and aligning the interests and actions of all important stakeholders.Fourth and last is the need for a national vision for America\'s infra-structure that defines the function and performance of the entire system over its total lifecycle.A new kind of collaboration by different constituencies, which the author refers to as the creation of "megacommunities," is held up as a way for stakeholders with conflicting interests to cooperate on compelling issues of national importance with a shared set of practices and protocols.']
['Walter, Herbert', 'Safety concepts in geotechnical engineering then and now \xe2\x80\x93 how do the Eurocodes affect tunnelling?. Sicherheitskonzepte in der Geotechnik gestern und heute \xe2\x80\x93 was bringen die Eurocodes f\xc3\xbcr den Tunnelbau?', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'As indicated in the title, many different safety concepts \xe2\x80\x93 in the sense of various definitions of "safety" and "safety factor" \xe2\x80\x93 have been used in civil engineering and particularly in geotechnical engineering according to the type of project. "The" old safety concept (single) is a fiction. The Eurocodes are based on a common basis, the semi-probabilistic concept, but as before demand different strategies for different tasks. Different strategies for ultimate limit states of failure are now described in geotechnical engineering as different "design approaches".For retaining structures, which include tunnel linings in the broadest sense, the design approach DA 2\xe2\x98\x86 is the most practical for standard cases and involves the least work in the transition to the Eurocodes. This procedure is also intended as standard in the Austrian guideline RVS 9.01.42 "Tunnel structures in soft soil under built-up areas" in the 2004 issue. This guideline is being revised at the moment, but no significant changes are anticipated in the new issue.Particular features of geotechnical engineering, e.g. that ground can be an action as well as construction material or resistance, have resulted in some special provisions in Eurocode 7. Some of these particular features are referred to in this paper. The application of the Eurocodes in connection with numerical calculations in tunnel construction is also investigated and the limits discussed. The introduction of the Eurocodes is seen as a chance to exploit the experience in all European countries for better codes, unified safety requirements and to jettison ballast.Wie im Titel angedeutet, wurden im Bauwesen und speziell in der Geotechnik je nach Aufgabenstellung verschiedene Sicherheitskonzepte \xe2\x80\x93 im Sinn von verschiedenen Definitionen von "Sicherheit" und "Sicherheitsfaktor" \xe2\x80\x93 verwendet. "Das" alte Sicherheitskonzept (Einzahl) ist Fiktion. Die Eurocodes beruhen auf einer gemeinsamen Basis, dem semi-probabilistischen Konzept, erfordern aber nach wie vor je nach Aufgabenstellung verschiedene Strategien. Unterschiedliche Strategien f\xc3\xbcr Grenzzust\xc3\xa4nde des Versagens werden in der Geotechnik jetzt als unterschiedliche "Nachweisverfahren" bezeichnet.F\xc3\xbcr St\xc3\xbctzbauwerke, zu denen Tunnelschalen im weitesten Sinn geh\xc3\xb6ren, ist das Nachweisverfahren NV 2\xe2\x98\x86 f\xc3\xbcr Standardf\xc3\xa4lle am praktikabelsten und mit dem geringsten Aufwand bei der Umstellung auf die Eurocodes verbunden. Dieses Verfahren ist auch in der \xc3\xb6sterreichischen Richtlinie RVS 9.01.42 "Geschlossene Bauweise im Lockergestein unter Bebauung" in der Ausgabe 2004 als Standard vorgesehen. Diese Richtlinie wird derzeit aktualisiert, wesentliche \xc3\x84nderungen werden sich durch die neue Ausgabe wohl nicht ergeben.Besonderheiten der Geotechnik, z.B. dass Boden sowohl Einwirkung als auch Baustoff bzw. Widerstand sein kann, haben einige spezielle Regelungen im Eurocode 7 bedingt. Auf einige dieser Besonderheiten wird in diesem Beitrag hingewiesen. Weiterhin wird die Anwendbarkeit der Eurocodes im Zusammenhang mit numerischen Berechnungen im Tunnelbau untersucht und Grenzen aufgezeigt. Die Einf\xc3\xbchrung der Eurocodes wird als eine Chance gesehen, die Erfahrungen aller europ\xc3\xa4ischen L\xc3\xa4nder f\xc3\xbcr bessere Normen, vereinheitlichte Sicherheitsanforderungen und das Abwerfen von Ballast zu nutzen.']
['Miller, Fiona A. and Painter-Main, Michael and Axler, Renata and Lehoux, Pascale and Giacomini, Mita and Slater, Barbara', "Citizen expectations of 'academic entrepreneurship' in health research: public science, practical benefit", 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Background\nResponsiveness to citizens as users of technological innovation helps motivate translational research and commercial engagement among academics. Yet, retaining citizen trust and support for research encourages caution in pursuit of commercial science.\n\nObjectives\nWe explore citizen expectations of the specifically academic nature of commercial science [i.e. academic entrepreneurship (AE)] and the influence of conflict of interest concerns, hopes about practical benefits and general beliefs.\n\nDesign, setting and participants\nWe conducted a cross-sectional national opinion survey of 1002 Canadians online in 2010.\n\nResults\nApproval of AE was moderate (mean 3.2/5, SD 0.84), but varied by entrepreneurial activity. Concern about conflict of interests (COI) was moderate (mean 2.9/5, SD 0.86) and varied by type of concern. An ordinary least-squares regression showed that expectations of practical benefits informed support for AE, specifically that academic\xe2\x80\x93industry collaboration can better address real-world problems; conflict of interest concerns were insignificant.\n\nConclusions\nThese findings suggest that citizens support AE for its potential to produce practical benefits, but enthusiasm varies and is reduced for activities that may prioritize private over public interests. Further, support exists despite concern about COI, perhaps due to trust in the academic research context. For user engagement in research priority setting, these findings suggest the need to attend to the commercial nature of translational science. For research policy, they suggest the need for governance arrangements for responsible innovation, which can sustain public trust in academic research, and realize the practical benefits that inform public support for AE.']
['Hart, Leah J. and Carr, Catherine and Fullerton, Judith T.', 'Task Analysis as a Resource for Strengthening Health Systems', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'Task analysis is a descriptive study methodology that has wide application in the health professions. Task analysis is particularly useful in assessment and definition of the knowledge, skills, and behaviors that define the scope of practice of a health profession or occupation. Jhpiego, a US-based nongovernmental organization, has adapted traditional task analysis methods in several countries in assessment of workforce education and practice issues. Four case studies are presented to describe the utility and adaptability of the task analysis approach. Traditional task analysis field survey methods were used in assessment of the general and maternal-child health nursing workforce in Mozambique that led to curriculum redesign, reducing the number of education pathways from 4 to 2. The process of health system strengthening in Liberia, following a long history of civil war conflict, included a traditional task analysis study conducted among 119 registered nurses and 46 certified midwives who had graduated in the last 6 months to 2 years to determine gaps in education and preparation. An innovative approach for data collection that involves "playing cards" to document participant opinions (Task Master, Mining for Data) was developed by Jhpiego for application in other countries. Results of a task analysis involving 54 nurses and 100 nurse-midwives conducted in Lesotho were used to verify the newly drafted scope and standards of practice for nurses and to inform planning for a competency-based preservice curriculum for nursing. The Nursing and Midwifery Council developed a 100-question licensing examination for new graduates following a task analysis in Botswana. The task analysis process in each country resulted in recommendations that were action oriented and were implemented by the country governments. For maximal utility and ongoing impact, a task analysis study should be repeated on a periodic basis and more frequently in countries undergoing rapid change in development of workforce policy.']
['Perren, James and Grove, Nuray and Thornton, Julie', 'Three Empowering Curricular Innovations for Service-Learning in ESL Programs', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "This article describes three service-learning projects implemented in three different ESL programs in the United States. Each description includes typical course goals, service-learning assignments, reflection activities, student learning outcomes, and pedagogical challenges. The first project was developing digital literacy through service-learning projects in southeast Michigan. In this ESL program, two groups of ESL students created two types of written publications about their service and civic engagement learning experiences. The documents were subsequently posted to the Internet. The second project involved international students at the University of Richmond. Students completed weekly service-learning by tutoring underserved children in a low-income urban neighborhood in Virginia. The third project at the University of Denver involved observing how students' attitudes changed throughout the quarter during the process of learning about and serving the homeless community using a series of five written reflections. The three service-learning projects presented in this article demonstrate how community engagement can promote a sense of empowerment in ESL students. This is accomplished by making them feel part of their community, allowing them to work cooperatively to develop authorial voice, increasing their audience awareness in writing, and fostering critical reflection that leads to a better understanding of social problems and civic responsibility."]
['Scott, Nigel and Batchelor, Simon', 'Real Time Monitoring in Disasters', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This article discusses some of the opportunities emerging from the changing Information and Communication Technology (ICT) landscape for improving and enhancing agency response within the disaster cycle. There are constant calls for better coordination among agencies, of engaging with the community to improve resilience, of better governance, of community empowerment. Any action in a system affected by disaster will be guided by a complex mix of human response, socioeconomic context, political and power factors, and technology. The technology is only one component in a complex environment. Nevertheless, as this article outlines, recent shifts in the ICT landscape have not only created opportunities for more and timely data, they have opened the way for new ways of working. They have the potential to increase interagency cooperation, they have the potential to deliver community engagement, breaking free from extraction of information to a co-construction of data, and they even have the potential to empower citizens and to enable better governance.']
['Delacruz, Elizabeth', 'Old World Teaching Meets the New Digital Cultural Creatives', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This article sets forth a conceptual, philosophical and social agenda for art and design education in the twenty-first century, considering how a set of beliefs articulated within US art education discourse interfaces with conceptualisations about emerging global digital media and technologies. Discussion highlights selected writings in the USA primarily, writings about art education technology orientations; and then describes the professional experiences and insights of the writer as she embraced, implemented and made sense of technology in terms of her own multicultural educational orientation in a US university. Based on these insights, this writer proposes that technology pedagogy is not actually about digital technologies per se, but about what we intend to do with new technologies in the twenty-first century. Old notions of art as an embodiment of things that matter and a testament to the human condition are now connected to contemporary ideas about citizenship, caring and public engagement. In this trajectory, citizenship education is then posed as central to a future vision of art education in the digitally connected classroom. Caveats and limitations of the educational and transformative power of new global electronic media being set forth in this article are also noted, including paradoxical self-contradictions within the orientation itself.']
['Tello-Rozas, Sonia and Pozzebon, Marlei and Mailhot, Chantale', 'Uncovering Micro-Practices and Pathways of Engagement That Scale Up Social-Driven Collaborations: A Practice View of Power', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'This paper explores how large-scale social-driven collaborations might grow in scale and help promote political change. We present the results of a qualitative investigation of a complex platform where multiple and hybrid collaborations co-exist and where civil society plays a central role. Based on a longitudinal comparative case study, we draw a processual model describing micro-practices and pathways of engagement. We show that the emergence of these collaborations requires a new type of convener, one that is able to manage the interplay between the sharing/co-creation of abundant resources and the coordinated decentralization of informal authority. Our study extends existing debates on the role of resources and authority, showing the complementarity between possession and practice perspectives of power. Finally, we identified synergies between collaboration and social movement literatures, particularly showing that large-scale collaborations could be mobilized to refine social movement agendas and achieve more purposive collective action.']
['AMIRAN, REVITAL', 'Beyond the sacred language: on the liberal evolution of Hebrew in Jewish nationality', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', 'ABSTRACT.  This paper aims to shed light on the evolution of the Jewish national language and to discuss the ways in which the cultural trends in Zionism constantly left room for the creative imagination of its adherents, and functioned in such a way as to erode its sacred dimension, thereby promoting a discourse focusing on the individual. My claim is that the Hebrew language case study may reflect the importance not only of national revisionist accounts for our understanding of the Zionist movement, but also the need for an approach that saves a place for truly creative aspects of civic engagement, and recognises the Israeli nation as one asserting, besides its ethnic ties also patriotic nexuses. Special attention will be given to the phenomenon of Hebrew poetry written by women in the 1920s as a platform from which to examine the unique meaning and evolution of language within the Jewish national movement.']
['Gainer, Jesse', 'The Boy Made of Lightning', 'Wiley', '---NO URL FOUND---', "This column explores 21st century literacies through a sociocultural lens. Through an analysis and discussion of an ebook about the life of civil-rights activist and voting rights pioneer, Willie Velasquez, the author illustrates the powerful potential of new technology to produce multi-modal texts that can help students and educators study civic engagement and pursue 'more democratic space' inside and outside of classrooms."]
['Bellaby, Paul & Clark, Andrew', 'Might More Harm Be Done Than Good When Scientists and Engineers Engage with the Public About New Technology Before it is Fully Developed? The Case of Hydrogen Energy', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21548455.2015.1073404', "We report consultation about hydrogen energy at the Hydrogen Centre in South Wales with members of the public in the region. The Centre's research staff guided tours and outside sociologists made the independent assessment presented here. Hydrogen energy is a technology under development. The question is as follows: Does any risk to its future in consulting the public ?upstream? of its full development outweigh any risk in not consulting them? The Hydrogen Centre was started in 2008. In 2011, it opened to three age groups: Baccalaureate students of 14, Tertiary College students of 18?19 and adult members of a Citizens? Panel. The sociologists (1) observed how the Centre's prototype of micro-generation of hydrogen energy was presented; (2) conducted surveys before their visits?of what visitors knew and wanted to find out, and after?of what they learned; (3) facilitated deliberation in focus groups about what hydrogen implies both globally and for the region and (4) fed back the findings to a meeting of the Centre staff and others in the Low Carbon Research Institute for Wales (at Cardiff University, November 2011). In this paper, we focus on the reticence of Centre staff about the visits?for their research was incomplete and key equipment was lacking at the time. Yet the visitors appear to have learned about hydrogen energy, remedied some mistaken ideas and taken away positive impressions. We conclude that engaging with the public as the technology develops might not be a significant risk to research. Not to do so might be more of a risk. We report consultation about hydrogen energy at the Hydrogen Centre in South Wales with members of the public in the region. The Centre's research staff guided tours and outside sociologists made the independent assessment presented here. Hydrogen energy is a technology under development. The question is as follows: Does any risk to its future in consulting the public ?upstream? of its full development outweigh any risk in not consulting them? The Hydrogen Centre was started in 2008. In 2011, it opened to three age groups: Baccalaureate students of 14, Tertiary College students of 18?19 and adult members of a Citizens? Panel. The sociologists (1) observed how the Centre's prototype of micro-generation of hydrogen energy was presented; (2) conducted surveys before their visits?of what visitors knew and wanted to find out, and after?of what they learned; (3) facilitated deliberation in focus groups about what hydrogen implies both globally and for the region and (4) fed back the findings to a meeting of the Centre staff and others in the Low Carbon Research Institute for Wales (at Cardiff University, November 2011). In this paper, we focus on the reticence of Centre staff about the visits?for their research was incomplete and key equipment was lacking at the time. Yet the visitors appear to have learned about hydrogen energy, remedied some mistaken ideas and taken away positive impressions. We conclude that engaging with the public as the technology develops might not be a significant risk to research. Not to do so might be more of a risk."]
['Biggs, Amanda; Brough, Paula & Barbour, Jennifer P.', 'Relationships of individual and organizational support with engagement: Examining various types of causality in a three-wave study', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02678373.2014.934316', 'The challenges associated with facilitating an organizational environment that promotes work engagement and is supportive of employee psychological well-being are well documented. This study focused on the longitudinal relationships between work engagement and three supportive job resources: supervisor support, colleague support and individual perceptions of the wider resource of work culture support. The sample comprised 1196 employees of an Australian state police service, both police officers and civilian staff, who completed self-report surveys across three waves of data collection. Work culture support predicted higher supervisor support, colleague support and work engagement over time lags of 12 and 18 months. Furthermore, work engagement was a significant predictor of work culture support over the two time lags. Significant indirect relationships were also observed. With the large volume of work-related factors potentially influencing work engagement, the results of this research assist in clarifying the specific supportive job resources that impact upon work engagement over time. The paper discusses practical implications for the promotion of support and work engagement within high-stress occupations. The challenges associated with facilitating an organizational environment that promotes work engagement and is supportive of employee psychological well-being are well documented. This study focused on the longitudinal relationships between work engagement and three supportive job resources: supervisor support, colleague support and individual perceptions of the wider resource of work culture support. The sample comprised 1196 employees of an Australian state police service, both police officers and civilian staff, who completed self-report surveys across three waves of data collection. Work culture support predicted higher supervisor support, colleague support and work engagement over time lags of 12 and 18 months. Furthermore, work engagement was a significant predictor of work culture support over the two time lags. Significant indirect relationships were also observed. With the large volume of work-related factors potentially influencing work engagement, the results of this research assist in clarifying the specific supportive job resources that impact upon work engagement over time. The paper discusses practical implications for the promotion of support and work engagement within high-stress occupations.']
['Bolsen, Toby; Evans, Michael & Fleming, Anna McCaghren', 'A Comparison of Online and Face-to-Face Approaches to Teaching Introduction to American Government', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15512169.2015.1090905', 'ABSTRACTThis article reports results from a large study comparing four different approaches to teaching Introduction to American Government: (1) traditional, a paper textbook with 100% face-to-face lecture-style teaching; (2) breakout, a paper textbook with 50% face-to-face lecture-style teaching and 50% face-to-face small-group breakout discussion sections moderated by graduate students; (3) blended, an interactive online textbook with face-to-face full-class meetings taught with a blend of lecture, discussions, and in-class activities; and (4) online only, an interactive online textbook with (almost) no face-to-face class meetings. We find that the mode of course delivery is significantly related to student academic engagement and performance as well as civic educational outcomes. Although drop rates were higher in the online only condition, students who successfully completed the online course were significantly more likely to express interest in discussing and participating in politics. Furthermore, students in the online only and blended conditions demonstrated significantly higher levels of objective political knowledge relative to students taking the course in a more traditional format. Finally, students enrolled in sections that assigned the interactive online textbook rated their textbook as significantly more beneficial to their learning experiences than did students who used the traditional paper textbook. ABSTRACTThis article reports results from a large study comparing four different approaches to teaching Introduction to American Government: (1) traditional, a paper textbook with 100% face-to-face lecture-style teaching; (2) breakout, a paper textbook with 50% face-to-face lecture-style teaching and 50% face-to-face small-group breakout discussion sections moderated by graduate students; (3) blended, an interactive online textbook with face-to-face full-class meetings taught with a blend of lecture, discussions, and in-class activities; and (4) online only, an interactive online textbook with (almost) no face-to-face class meetings. We find that the mode of course delivery is significantly related to student academic engagement and performance as well as civic educational outcomes. Although drop rates were higher in the online only condition, students who successfully completed the online course were significantly more likely to express interest in discussing and participating in politics. Furthermore, students in the online only and blended conditions demonstrated significantly higher levels of objective political knowledge relative to students taking the course in a more traditional format. Finally, students enrolled in sections that assigned the interactive online textbook rated their textbook as significantly more beneficial to their learning experiences than did students who used the traditional paper textbook.']
['von Busch, Otto', 'Collaborative Craft Capabilities: The Bodyhood of Shared Skills', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.2752/174967813X13703633980731', 'AbstractWith the rise of the Internet, skills, patterns, and ideas are being shared more widely among people engaged in the crafts, which seems to break with some of the underlying assumptions about the lone genius craftsman. Much discourse about craft has been focused on the hands of the artisan, or the ?tacit? knowledge used by the maker, but as crafters collaborate in a larger extent some other perspectives could be of use, especially since the surrounding environment seems to take a more active involvement in the production than the mere maker. Increasing Internet prevalence has made this even more obvious, as do-it-yourself instruction and the sharing of skills are abundant in craft forums online, blurring the borders between influences, makers, and situated modes of production. This article examines some concepts and metaphors by which some of the potentials of craft collaborations could be understood. Combining theories of cognition from super-organisms like ant colonies and their ?bodyhood? with the ?capabilities approach? of Amartya Sen and the concept of educational sloyd, the text builds an associative framework for a perspective on how collaborations actualize new craft capabilities. In conclusion, the article proposes a wider understanding of do-it-yourself activities as a shared endeavor toward expanded collaborative capabilities; do-it-together rather than yourself. AbstractWith the rise of the Internet, skills, patterns, and ideas are being shared more widely among people engaged in the crafts, which seems to break with some of the underlying assumptions about the lone genius craftsman. Much discourse about craft has been focused on the hands of the artisan, or the ?tacit? knowledge used by the maker, but as crafters collaborate in a larger extent some other perspectives could be of use, especially since the surrounding environment seems to take a more active involvement in the production than the mere maker. Increasing Internet prevalence has made this even more obvious, as do-it-yourself instruction and the sharing of skills are abundant in craft forums online, blurring the borders between influences, makers, and situated modes of production. This article examines some concepts and metaphors by which some of the potentials of craft collaborations could be understood. Combining theories of cognition from super-organisms like ant colonies and their ?bodyhood? with the ?capabilities approach? of Amartya Sen and the concept of educational sloyd, the text builds an associative framework for a perspective on how collaborations actualize new craft capabilities. In conclusion, the article proposes a wider understanding of do-it-yourself activities as a shared endeavor toward expanded collaborative capabilities; do-it-together rather than yourself.']
['Calland, Richard & Nakhooda, Smita', "Participatory democracy meets the hard rock of energy policy: South Africa's National Integrated Resource Plan", 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13510347.2012.709688', 'South Africa faces a demanding period of policymaking in search of sustainable energy solutions, which are required if the country is to reduce future increase in its greenhouse gas emissions. The most recent platform for this process was the drafting of the Integrated Resource Plan 2 (IRP 2). The Constitutional provisions that require participation in law-making have been strengthened, placing an onus on government to facilitate public involvement. This article examines the extent to which constitutional and statutory duty to permit meaningful public participation was met in developing the IRP2. In South Africa there are many obstacles to effective engagement, attenuated by the complexities of the political context, social inequities, and imperatives of economic growth. The case demonstrates that where civil society organizations develop strategic and technical capacity, they can begin to overcome these obstacles and compete with incumbent corporate stakeholders whose vested interest lies in monopolizing more secretive and exclusionary decision processes, where government departments struggle to address the scale, urgency and inter-connected complexity of sustainable development. But the IRP 2 case study is also a cautionary tale that demonstrates the limits of what can be achieved through constructive dialogue if stakeholders have uneven access to decision-making processes and uneven capacity to have influence, especially in processes where a premium is placed on technical expertise and where that expert knowledge may be used to manipulate outcomes. South Africa faces a demanding period of policymaking in search of sustainable energy solutions, which are required if the country is to reduce future increase in its greenhouse gas emissions. The most recent platform for this process was the drafting of the Integrated Resource Plan 2 (IRP 2). The Constitutional provisions that require participation in law-making have been strengthened, placing an onus on government to facilitate public involvement. This article examines the extent to which constitutional and statutory duty to permit meaningful public participation was met in developing the IRP2. In South Africa there are many obstacles to effective engagement, attenuated by the complexities of the political context, social inequities, and imperatives of economic growth. The case demonstrates that where civil society organizations develop strategic and technical capacity, they can begin to overcome these obstacles and compete with incumbent corporate stakeholders whose vested interest lies in monopolizing more secretive and exclusionary decision processes, where government departments struggle to address the scale, urgency and inter-connected complexity of sustainable development. But the IRP 2 case study is also a cautionary tale that demonstrates the limits of what can be achieved through constructive dialogue if stakeholders have uneven access to decision-making processes and uneven capacity to have influence, especially in processes where a premium is placed on technical expertise and where that expert knowledge may be used to manipulate outcomes.']
['Carr, Wylie; Yung, Laurie & Preston, Christopher', 'Swimming upstream: Engaging the American public early on climate engineering', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/0096340214531180', 'Calls for public participation in climate engineering research and governance have appeared in numerous scientific and policy reports on the topic, indicating a desire for transparency and public oversight. But meaningful public engagement can require more of scientists and regulatory agencies than many realize. Over the past several decades, researchers and practitioners have developed many different methodologies to enable citizens to productively engage with experts and policy makers about emerging scientific and technological issues such as climate engineering. In fact, the United Kingdom has already convened several public participation exercises on climate engineering. Now is the time for federal agencies in the United States to start similar processes. The public is ready to discuss climate engineering. Are American scientists and decision makers ready to reciprocate? Calls for public participation in climate engineering research and governance have appeared in numerous scientific and policy reports on the topic, indicating a desire for transparency and public oversight. But meaningful public engagement can require more of scientists and regulatory agencies than many realize. Over the past several decades, researchers and practitioners have developed many different methodologies to enable citizens to productively engage with experts and policy makers about emerging scientific and technological issues such as climate engineering. In fact, the United Kingdom has already convened several public participation exercises on climate engineering. Now is the time for federal agencies in the United States to start similar processes. The public is ready to discuss climate engineering. Are American scientists and decision makers ready to reciprocate?']
['Cobo, Cristobal', 'Networks for citizen consultation and citizen sourcing of expertise', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21582041.2012.683445', 'This study aims to explore how public websites facilitate the creation of networks for citizen consultation. Evidence-based analysis is applied to European public-sector websites to determine the degree to which they adopt digital mechanisms and strategies to facilitate citizen participation and collaboration. This study analyses outstanding European public-sector websites as categorised by the European Commission at the 4th European eGovernment Awards (EeGA) 2009. These finalists, which were selected by independent judges, are taken as a representative sample of the range of eGovernment projects in Europe. Although other eGovernment projects with exemplary features certainly exist, the unbiased nature of this list, which consists of 52 finalists from 31 countries, provides an objective criterion for inclusion, thus making our sample analytically stronger than an opportunistic sample. The selected websites are analysed and classified based on the taxonomy of citizen participation elaborated by Dutton, who defines three levels of digital citizen engagement: (1) sharing, (2) contributing, and (3) co-creating knowledge. These constitute a matrix describing different levels of maturity in an e-democracy. The results of the analysis and the application of this methodology provide an overview of the strategies and policies adopted by European governments to promote and support e-democracy. Interestingly, the results also show that the vast majority of European Union (EU) public websites adopt strategies to promote only the earliest stages of digital citizen engagement, primarily at level 1. This study also reveals how the public sector utilises various tools, social networks and digital resources to create virtual networks of citizen consultation and citizen sourcing of expertise. A valuable result of this study is the taxonomy of digital citizen engagement and its operationalisation, which may be useful for future research. Finally, this work identifies practices, strategies and mechanisms for fostering e-democracy in the EU. This study aims to explore how public websites facilitate the creation of networks for citizen consultation. Evidence-based analysis is applied to European public-sector websites to determine the degree to which they adopt digital mechanisms and strategies to facilitate citizen participation and collaboration. This study analyses outstanding European public-sector websites as categorised by the European Commission at the 4th European eGovernment Awards (EeGA) 2009. These finalists, which were selected by independent judges, are taken as a representative sample of the range of eGovernment projects in Europe. Although other eGovernment projects with exemplary features certainly exist, the unbiased nature of this list, which consists of 52 finalists from 31 countries, provides an objective criterion for inclusion, thus making our sample analytically stronger than an opportunistic sample. The selected websites are analysed and classified based on the taxonomy of citizen participation elaborated by Dutton, who defines three levels of digital citizen engagement: (1) sharing, (2) contributing, and (3) co-creating knowledge. These constitute a matrix describing different levels of maturity in an e-democracy. The results of the analysis and the application of this methodology provide an overview of the strategies and policies adopted by European governments to promote and support e-democracy. Interestingly, the results also show that the vast majority of European Union (EU) public websites adopt strategies to promote only the earliest stages of digital citizen engagement, primarily at level 1. This study also reveals how the public sector utilises various tools, social networks and digital resources to create virtual networks of citizen consultation and citizen sourcing of expertise. A valuable result of this study is the taxonomy of digital citizen engagement and its operationalisation, which may be useful for future research. Finally, this work identifies practices, strategies and mechanisms for fostering e-democracy in the EU.']
['Cote, Kyle & Emmett, Tara', 'Effective Implementation of ePortfolios: The Development of ePortfolios to Support Online Learning', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00405841.2015.1077642', "This article discusses the ePortfolio system for grades 9?12 at the Virtual Learning Academy Charter School (VLACS). ePortfolio implementation at VLACS developed from an Advisory course curriculum that supports students' journey toward becoming college, career, and citizenship ready. We provide a unique perspective for implementation in that VLACS is completely online. Drawing from experiences in brick-and-mortar schools, online instruction, and research on digital portfolio programs, we utilize online portfolios to build a virtual community and engage students in their learning. The article summarizes key components to ePortfolio implementation and highlights how ePortfolios enable VLACS students to both reflect on their experience as learners and demonstrate academic and professional competencies. This article discusses the ePortfolio system for grades 9?12 at the Virtual Learning Academy Charter School (VLACS). ePortfolio implementation at VLACS developed from an Advisory course curriculum that supports students' journey toward becoming college, career, and citizenship ready. We provide a unique perspective for implementation in that VLACS is completely online. Drawing from experiences in brick-and-mortar schools, online instruction, and research on digital portfolio programs, we utilize online portfolios to build a virtual community and engage students in their learning. The article summarizes key components to ePortfolio implementation and highlights how ePortfolios enable VLACS students to both reflect on their experience as learners and demonstrate academic and professional competencies."]
['Delicado, Ana', 'Environmental education technologies in a social void: the case of \xe2\x80\x98Greendrive\xe2\x80\x99', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13504622.2012.683849', 'This article is based on a case study that follows the trajectory of a technological device aimed at environmental education from the engineering laboratory in which it was designed into the contexts in which it is used. ?Greendrive? is a driving simulator that accurately reproduces the performance of a vehicle in terms of fuel consumption and greenhouse gases emissions, in order to instill the principles of safe and environmentally friendly driving. The text is divided into three parts. The first part introduces the issue of transport behavior as one of the causes of climate change and the role of eco-driving in reducing emissions. The second part describes how a team of Portuguese engineering researchers developed the driving simulator and how a local authority and a consulting and training company are using it. Finally, the discussion part aims to show that despite the intentions of its creators and their clients, the driving simulator is unlikely, by itself, to generate changes in behavior. An information-deficit approach to environmental education that fails to consider the social embeddedness of human action and disregards the engagement of citizens has a very limited chance of success. This article is based on a case study that follows the trajectory of a technological device aimed at environmental education from the engineering laboratory in which it was designed into the contexts in which it is used. ?Greendrive? is a driving simulator that accurately reproduces the performance of a vehicle in terms of fuel consumption and greenhouse gases emissions, in order to instill the principles of safe and environmentally friendly driving. The text is divided into three parts. The first part introduces the issue of transport behavior as one of the causes of climate change and the role of eco-driving in reducing emissions. The second part describes how a team of Portuguese engineering researchers developed the driving simulator and how a local authority and a consulting and training company are using it. Finally, the discussion part aims to show that despite the intentions of its creators and their clients, the driving simulator is unlikely, by itself, to generate changes in behavior. An information-deficit approach to environmental education that fails to consider the social embeddedness of human action and disregards the engagement of citizens has a very limited chance of success.']
['Desportes, I.; Waddell, J. & Hordijk, M.', 'Improving flood risk governance through multi-stakeholder collaboration: a case study of Sweet Home informal settlement, Cape Town', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03736245.2015.1052842', "Bringing a wider range of stakeholders together has become increasingly important in disaster risk reduction discourse, particularly in informal settlements located on marginal, flood-prone land in many cities of the global South. Attempts by the City of Cape Town (CCT) municipality, civil society organizations (CSOs) and affected residents to cope with floods, which impact about 88,000 households on the low-lying Cape Flats, reflect the ongoing political, social and technical constraints inherent in areas of informality. Using the flood-prone informal settlement of Sweet Home as a case study, a participatory, qualitative methodology was adopted to question the extent to which the CCT, CSOs and Sweet Home residents currently collaborate to address flood risk. Although the CCT's Flood and Storms Task Team is recognized as an innovative, collaborative and pro-active approach for addressing city-wide flood risk, shortcomings still remain. Focusing not only on ?why collaboration is necessary?, but also on ?how? collaboration can be achieved in the highly politicized context of South African informal settlements, this research identifies some of the critical barriers faced by stakeholders in Cape Town to address flood risk collaboratively. It explores how these barriers can be overcome and highlights the role that academics can play in creating more politically neutral platforms for stakeholders to engage with each other. Bringing a wider range of stakeholders together has become increasingly important in disaster risk reduction discourse, particularly in informal settlements located on marginal, flood-prone land in many cities of the global South. Attempts by the City of Cape Town (CCT) municipality, civil society organizations (CSOs) and affected residents to cope with floods, which impact about 88,000 households on the low-lying Cape Flats, reflect the ongoing political, social and technical constraints inherent in areas of informality. Using the flood-prone informal settlement of Sweet Home as a case study, a participatory, qualitative methodology was adopted to question the extent to which the CCT, CSOs and Sweet Home residents currently collaborate to address flood risk. Although the CCT's Flood and Storms Task Team is recognized as an innovative, collaborative and pro-active approach for addressing city-wide flood risk, shortcomings still remain. Focusing not only on ?why collaboration is necessary?, but also on ?how? collaboration can be achieved in the highly politicized context of South African informal settlements, this research identifies some of the critical barriers faced by stakeholders in Cape Town to address flood risk collaboratively. It explores how these barriers can be overcome and highlights the role that academics can play in creating more politically neutral platforms for stakeholders to engage with each other."]
['Dorsman, Stephan J.; Bekkers, Victor J.J.M. & Edwards, Arthur R.', '\xe2\x80\x98Trust the experts!\xe2\x80\x99 Risk definitions in Dutch online forums about the \xe2\x80\x98swine flu\xe2\x80\x99', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2015.1036767', 'Citizens are becoming increasingly likely to challenge the knowledge bases underlying policy programmes that deal with risks. This paper investigates how participants in online discussions engage in interactions between expert knowledge, ?commons knowledge? and policy assumptions. The concept of ?boundary objects?, arrangements that allow different groups to work together without consensus, is used to analyse the role of online discussions in these interactions. Discussions on three Dutch online forums about the swine flu are investigated according to a framework for policy argumentation. Interaction between knowledge domains was limited, and it varied in focus and nature across the three forums. Each discussion functioned as a partial approximation of a boundary object. Government organizations should be more aware of the variety of online forums in which discussions about societal risks take place. Several practical options are presented for policy-making with regard to risks. Citizens are becoming increasingly likely to challenge the knowledge bases underlying policy programmes that deal with risks. This paper investigates how participants in online discussions engage in interactions between expert knowledge, ?commons knowledge? and policy assumptions. The concept of ?boundary objects?, arrangements that allow different groups to work together without consensus, is used to analyse the role of online discussions in these interactions. Discussions on three Dutch online forums about the swine flu are investigated according to a framework for policy argumentation. Interaction between knowledge domains was limited, and it varied in focus and nature across the three forums. Each discussion functioned as a partial approximation of a boundary object. Government organizations should be more aware of the variety of online forums in which discussions about societal risks take place. Several practical options are presented for policy-making with regard to risks.']
['Emery, Jennifer Kelkres; Howard, Alison & Evans, Jocelyn', 'Teaching Better, Teaching Together: A Coordinated Student Exit Poll Across the States', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15512169.2014.947419', "Student exit polling has demonstrated value in the classroom (Berry and Robinson 2012; Evans and Lagergren 2007; Lelieveldt and Rossen 2009), but faculty typically operate these polls in isolation. When faculty collaborate, however, students gain additional benefits from the experience. Collaboration provides a geographically diverse ?student community? that allows students to engage in experiential learning beyond the confines of their immediate classrooms. The authors have created assignments and an instructor's manual on running student exit polls in undergraduate courses. Three institutions used these assignments during the Fall 2012 semester. By using structured assignments, these instructors created an opportunity to participate collaboratively with others in survey design and data analysis. Student assessment data showed that students explored their own political communities and honed skills across learning domains. Most importantly, students applied relevant political science concepts to the electoral process, exercised critical thinking, practiced oral and written communication, and grappled with project management. This type of collaboration provides political perspective and community engagement within political science for both faculty and students. Student exit polling has demonstrated value in the classroom (Berry and Robinson 2012; Evans and Lagergren 2007; Lelieveldt and Rossen 2009), but faculty typically operate these polls in isolation. When faculty collaborate, however, students gain additional benefits from the experience. Collaboration provides a geographically diverse ?student community? that allows students to engage in experiential learning beyond the confines of their immediate classrooms. The authors have created assignments and an instructor's manual on running student exit polls in undergraduate courses. Three institutions used these assignments during the Fall 2012 semester. By using structured assignments, these instructors created an opportunity to participate collaboratively with others in survey design and data analysis. Student assessment data showed that students explored their own political communities and honed skills across learning domains. Most importantly, students applied relevant political science concepts to the electoral process, exercised critical thinking, practiced oral and written communication, and grappled with project management. This type of collaboration provides political perspective and community engagement within political science for both faculty and students."]
['Flynn, Rob; Ricci, Miriam & Bellaby, Paul', 'The Mirage of Citizen Engagement in Uncertain Science: Public attitudes towards hydrogen energy', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21548455.2011.585810', 'This paper addresses some of the debates about citizen involvement in decisions about science and technological innovation. It describes some of the claims and scientific uncertainties surrounding hydrogen energy. It examines qualitative evidence from a series of recent case studies in the UK about public perceptions of hydrogen. It is shown that public attitudes towards citizen engagement are highly ambivalent. While citizens approve of greater consultation, they raise doubts about the degree to which laypersons can be mobilised to participate in public debates, they express contradictory views about their trust in experts, and they are sceptical about whether such involvement will influence policy. These findings add further questions about the efficacy of upstream public engagement in assessments of emergent or novel technologies. They also suggest that over-optimistic expectations about upstream engagement may have to be moderated. This paper addresses some of the debates about citizen involvement in decisions about science and technological innovation. It describes some of the claims and scientific uncertainties surrounding hydrogen energy. It examines qualitative evidence from a series of recent case studies in the UK about public perceptions of hydrogen. It is shown that public attitudes towards citizen engagement are highly ambivalent. While citizens approve of greater consultation, they raise doubts about the degree to which laypersons can be mobilised to participate in public debates, they express contradictory views about their trust in experts, and they are sceptical about whether such involvement will influence policy. These findings add further questions about the efficacy of upstream public engagement in assessments of emergent or novel technologies. They also suggest that over-optimistic expectations about upstream engagement may have to be moderated.']
['Francoli, Mary', 'The digital MP or how I learned to stop worrying and love MP', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1386/jmpr.10.2-3.215_1', "AbstractIt is hard to imagine life on Parliament Hill in Canada without the ubiquitous Blackberry. The device has become so common place that we no longer bat an eye when we hear its rhythmic buzzing or find its frenzied operators tapping away on its minuscule keyboard. It's just one of new technologies that have caught the attention of the modern ?digital? MP. Today, almost every MP has a website and we've seen increasing interest in experimentation with blogs, online consultations, e-petitions and various social networking sites. They have brought myriad changes and challenges to the functions of MPs and their relationships with constituents. This paper details how various information and communication technologies, or ICTs, are being used by MPs in Canada. It questions whether they are being used to enhance citizen engagement, for professionalization, or both. Ultimately, it is concluded that there are more opportunities for consultation, but few, such as Canadian MP Garth Turner, are embracing the potential for greater participation. AbstractIt is hard to imagine life on Parliament Hill in Canada without the ubiquitous Blackberry. The device has become so common place that we no longer bat an eye when we hear its rhythmic buzzing or find its frenzied operators tapping away on its minuscule keyboard. It's just one of new technologies that have caught the attention of the modern ?digital? MP. Today, almost every MP has a website and we've seen increasing interest in experimentation with blogs, online consultations, e-petitions and various social networking sites. They have brought myriad changes and challenges to the functions of MPs and their relationships with constituents. This paper details how various information and communication technologies, or ICTs, are being used by MPs in Canada. It questions whether they are being used to enhance citizen engagement, for professionalization, or both. Ultimately, it is concluded that there are more opportunities for consultation, but few, such as Canadian MP Garth Turner, are embracing the potential for greater participation."]
['Gaines, Brian J. & Mondak, Jeffery J.', 'Typing Together? Clustering of Ideological Types in Online Social Networks', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19331680903031531', 'ABSTRACT In the brief span of only a few years, the Facebook social networking site has emerged as a central forum for social interaction and communication. The fact that Facebook members may well be rich in ?virtual social capital? could be important news from the standpoint of political engagement and mobilization, and, more broadly, in terms of the content and patterns of social interaction. In this article, we discuss the significance of the Facebook phenomenon for scholarship on social networks. A brief introduction to Facebook is presented, along with an assessment of the benefits and limitations inherent in research regarding Facebook networks. We then report some preliminary analyses of small samples from those networks. Drawing on past research regarding face-to-face social relationships, we examine whether online linkages possess some of the central characteristics common in more traditional forms of networks. Specifically, we focus on whether there are signs of clustering by Facebook members according to their political views, and whether the effects of tie strength observed in other forms of networks also are in evidence on Facebook. ABSTRACT In the brief span of only a few years, the Facebook social networking site has emerged as a central forum for social interaction and communication. The fact that Facebook members may well be rich in ?virtual social capital? could be important news from the standpoint of political engagement and mobilization, and, more broadly, in terms of the content and patterns of social interaction. In this article, we discuss the significance of the Facebook phenomenon for scholarship on social networks. A brief introduction to Facebook is presented, along with an assessment of the benefits and limitations inherent in research regarding Facebook networks. We then report some preliminary analyses of small samples from those networks. Drawing on past research regarding face-to-face social relationships, we examine whether online linkages possess some of the central characteristics common in more traditional forms of networks. Specifically, we focus on whether there are signs of clustering by Facebook members according to their political views, and whether the effects of tie strength observed in other forms of networks also are in evidence on Facebook.']
['Graham, Todd; Jackson, Daniel & Wright, Scott', '\xe2\x80\x98We need to get together and make ourselves heard\xe2\x80\x99: everyday online spaces as incubators of political action', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2015.1094113', 'ABSTRACTThis article examines to what extent, and how, people engaging in political talk within ?non-political? discussion forums ? online lifestyle communities ? leads to political (or personal) action or calls-to-action. The analysis is framed in the context of wider questions of citizenship, civic engagement and political mobilization. To capture everyday political talk amongst citizens requires us to move beyond the now widely analysed online spaces of formal politics. Instead, we focus on online third spaces concerning lifestyle issues such as parenting, personal finance and popular culture. Drawing on a content analysis of three popular UK-based discussion forums over the course of five years (2010?2014), we found that (for two of the three cases) such spaces were more than just talking shops. Rather they were spaces where political actions not only emerged, but where they seemed to be cultivated. Discussions embedded in the personal lives of participants often developed ? through talk ? into political actions aimed at government (or other) authorities. The article sheds light on the contributing factors and processes that (potentially) trigger and foster action emerging from political talk and provides insight into the mobilization potential of third spaces. ABSTRACTThis article examines to what extent, and how, people engaging in political talk within ?non-political? discussion forums ? online lifestyle communities ? leads to political (or personal) action or calls-to-action. The analysis is framed in the context of wider questions of citizenship, civic engagement and political mobilization. To capture everyday political talk amongst citizens requires us to move beyond the now widely analysed online spaces of formal politics. Instead, we focus on online third spaces concerning lifestyle issues such as parenting, personal finance and popular culture. Drawing on a content analysis of three popular UK-based discussion forums over the course of five years (2010?2014), we found that (for two of the three cases) such spaces were more than just talking shops. Rather they were spaces where political actions not only emerged, but where they seemed to be cultivated. Discussions embedded in the personal lives of participants often developed ? through talk ? into political actions aimed at government (or other) authorities. The article sheds light on the contributing factors and processes that (potentially) trigger and foster action emerging from political talk and provides insight into the mobilization potential of third spaces.']
['Hall, G. Brent; Chipeniuk, Raymond; Feick, Robert D.; Leahy, Michael G. & Deparday, Vivien', 'Community-based production of geographic information using open source software and Web 2.0', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13658810903213288', 'This article presents an innovative approach to citizen-led production of Web-based geographic information where new and/or existing digital map features are linked to annotations or commentary and citizens engage in synchronous and/or asynchronous discussion. The article discusses the relationship of the approach to public participation geographic information systems (PPGISs) and the emerging challenges associated with volunteered geographic information. A custom-developed, open source software tool named MapChat is used to facilitate the citizen inputs and discussions. The information generated from applying the approach through a series of community workshops is presented and discussed in light of current issues in PPGIS and volunteered geographic information research. This article presents an innovative approach to citizen-led production of Web-based geographic information where new and/or existing digital map features are linked to annotations or commentary and citizens engage in synchronous and/or asynchronous discussion. The article discusses the relationship of the approach to public participation geographic information systems (PPGISs) and the emerging challenges associated with volunteered geographic information. A custom-developed, open source software tool named MapChat is used to facilitate the citizen inputs and discussions. The information generated from applying the approach through a series of community workshops is presented and discussed in light of current issues in PPGIS and volunteered geographic information research.']
['Haste, Helen', "What is \xe2\x80\x98competence\xe2\x80\x99 and how should education incorporate new technology's tools to generate \xe2\x80\x98competent civic agents\xe2\x80\x99", 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09585170903195845', 'This article addresses the competences needed in twenty-first-century life, especially in relation to civic participation, and the educational requirements to foster them in young people. New technologies are widely used by young people for informal social interaction, video game-playing and giving voice to their views. Incorporation of these practices into the classroom has been fairly slow, despite their manifest potential for promoting agency and civic engagement. The article argues that this is in part due to the need for a cultural shift in education to accommodate them. Currently, many competences young people will need for the future world of interactive technology and ?bottom-up? information, communication and democracy are mainly being developed through informal practices. These competences, which include adaptability, managing ambiguity and agency are discussed in relation to civic participation. This article addresses the competences needed in twenty-first-century life, especially in relation to civic participation, and the educational requirements to foster them in young people. New technologies are widely used by young people for informal social interaction, video game-playing and giving voice to their views. Incorporation of these practices into the classroom has been fairly slow, despite their manifest potential for promoting agency and civic engagement. The article argues that this is in part due to the need for a cultural shift in education to accommodate them. Currently, many competences young people will need for the future world of interactive technology and ?bottom-up? information, communication and democracy are mainly being developed through informal practices. These competences, which include adaptability, managing ambiguity and agency are discussed in relation to civic participation.']
['Hoffman, Lindsay H.', 'Participation or Communication? An Explication of Political Activity in the Internet Age', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19331681.2011.650929', 'ABSTRACT This study clarifies the differences between political participation and political communication online. Although many studies have examined the nature and effects of online activity, none has effectively distinguished between the two types of behavior. This lack of clarity has arguably led to conflicting findings and confusion about what demarks a truly participatory act online. Using Pew 2008 data, online political behaviors are defined and examined. Results suggest that online communication and participation do appear to be different constructs, and while online participation predicts voting, online communication does not. Implications for conceptualizing these behaviors and directions for future research are discussed. This manuscript utilizes publicly available data from the Pew Internet & American Life Project. The data are available at http://www.pewInternet.org/Shared-Content/Data-Sets/2008/November-2008-Post-Election.aspx, and SPSS syntax is available from the author upon request. ABSTRACT This study clarifies the differences between political participation and political communication online. Although many studies have examined the nature and effects of online activity, none has effectively distinguished between the two types of behavior. This lack of clarity has arguably led to conflicting findings and confusion about what demarks a truly participatory act online. Using Pew 2008 data, online political behaviors are defined and examined. Results suggest that online communication and participation do appear to be different constructs, and while online participation predicts voting, online communication does not. Implications for conceptualizing these behaviors and directions for future research are discussed. This manuscript utilizes publicly available data from the Pew Internet & American Life Project. The data are available at http://www.pewInternet.org/Shared-Content/Data-Sets/2008/November-2008-Post-Election.aspx, and SPSS syntax is available from the author upon request.']
['Hollander, Justin B.', 'Intelligent participation: engaging citizens through a framework of multiple intelligences', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15575330.2011.621086', 'Community development professionals tend to treat the public as monolithic and homogeneous, without respect for variation in types of intelligence among the citizenry. This research explored how the psychological concept of multiple intelligences can be used to enhance public participation in a public planning process. The research involved the development of a model of public participation grounded in the theory of multiple intelligence and a case study of the application of that model in a town outside of Boston. The findings support the premise that a multiple intelligence framework can bring in and elicit input from a broad and intellectually diverse subset of the population. Community development professionals tend to treat the public as monolithic and homogeneous, without respect for variation in types of intelligence among the citizenry. This research explored how the psychological concept of multiple intelligences can be used to enhance public participation in a public planning process. The research involved the development of a model of public participation grounded in the theory of multiple intelligence and a case study of the application of that model in a town outside of Boston. The findings support the premise that a multiple intelligence framework can bring in and elicit input from a broad and intellectually diverse subset of the population.']
['Horelli, Liisa; Saad-Sulonen, Joanna; Wallin, Sirkku & Botero, Andrea', 'When Self-Organization Intersects with Urban Planning: Two Cases from Helsinki', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02697459.2015.1052941', 'Participation as self-organization has emerged as a new form of citizen activism, often supported by digital technology. A comparative qualitative analysis of two case studies in Helsinki indicates that the self-organization of citizens expands the practice of urban planning. Together, they enable the mobilization of different groups around issues related to urban space. The consequences have become visible in temporary uses of places, event making and community development through bottom-up cultures. However, the lacking links to decision-making constrains new solutions and creative actions. Participation as self-organization has emerged as a new form of citizen activism, often supported by digital technology. A comparative qualitative analysis of two case studies in Helsinki indicates that the self-organization of citizens expands the practice of urban planning. Together, they enable the mobilization of different groups around issues related to urban space. The consequences have become visible in temporary uses of places, event making and community development through bottom-up cultures. However, the lacking links to decision-making constrains new solutions and creative actions.']
['Iorio, Josh; Taylor, John E. & Sturts Dossick, Carrie', 'A bridge too far: examining the impact of facilitators on information transfer in global virtual project networks', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21573727.2011.642478', 'As the architecture, engineering and construction industry globalizes and the use of virtual environments to connect this workforce becomes more common, it becomes increasingly important to understand how to best support efficient systems of information transfer in technologically mediated workspaces. Previous research has demonstrated that global project networks face technological challenges that can interfere with collaboration, and it has been argued that facilitators are an effective means to help networks overcome these challenges. We conducted a study to determine how facilitators impact the transfer of information through a global project network in a modally robust virtual workspace by examining the centrality of facilitators and actors from different knowledge domains. We used task conflict duration as an outcome variable in comparing the performance of two facilitated and two non-facilitated networks of student teams engaged in complex design and planning projects. Our findings indicate that when facilitators occupied highly central positions during task interactions, conflict length was observed to increase. In non-facilitated networks, highly central actors emerged from a variety of knowledge domains and conflict length was observed to decrease. This evidence suggests that while facilitators are typically viewed as information bridges in global project networks, when they are central to task discussions, facilitators may impede the development of efficient network structures. As the architecture, engineering and construction industry globalizes and the use of virtual environments to connect this workforce becomes more common, it becomes increasingly important to understand how to best support efficient systems of information transfer in technologically mediated workspaces. Previous research has demonstrated that global project networks face technological challenges that can interfere with collaboration, and it has been argued that facilitators are an effective means to help networks overcome these challenges. We conducted a study to determine how facilitators impact the transfer of information through a global project network in a modally robust virtual workspace by examining the centrality of facilitators and actors from different knowledge domains. We used task conflict duration as an outcome variable in comparing the performance of two facilitated and two non-facilitated networks of student teams engaged in complex design and planning projects. Our findings indicate that when facilitators occupied highly central positions during task interactions, conflict length was observed to increase. In non-facilitated networks, highly central actors emerged from a variety of knowledge domains and conflict length was observed to decrease. This evidence suggests that while facilitators are typically viewed as information bridges in global project networks, when they are central to task discussions, facilitators may impede the development of efficient network structures.']
['Iosifidis, Petros', 'THE PUBLIC SPHERE, SOCIAL NETWORKS AND PUBLIC SERVICE MEDIA', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/1369118X.2010.514356', "The traditional Habermasian concept of the national public sphere created by the mass media of newspapers and television is said to have transformed to a multi-layered sphere of online and social networks which are increasingly important in engaging and mobilizing citizenship and in shaping the discourse within which rational discussion takes place. This article argues that the democratizing and empowering functions of the Internet and the new social media is being exaggerated and represent technological optimism for a number of reasons: the open participation of the Internet can turn chaotic; there is a problem of inclusiveness; censorship might be an issue; the Internet has become a major arena for corporate activity; the Internet's content is highly partisan; and above all, extensive dialogue and critical discussion (the very essence of the public sphere) is often absent on the Net. The article argues that open-platform Public Service Media (PSM) are capable of developing more comprehensive and inclusive social frameworks than online providers. Despite the growing financial gulf between PSM and their commercial competitors, public institutions should be free to expand online and into different platforms. As trusted media brands, PSM contribute to the creation of an inclusive public sphere, enhanced civic engagement and informed citizenship. The traditional Habermasian concept of the national public sphere created by the mass media of newspapers and television is said to have transformed to a multi-layered sphere of online and social networks which are increasingly important in engaging and mobilizing citizenship and in shaping the discourse within which rational discussion takes place. This article argues that the democratizing and empowering functions of the Internet and the new social media is being exaggerated and represent technological optimism for a number of reasons: the open participation of the Internet can turn chaotic; there is a problem of inclusiveness; censorship might be an issue; the Internet has become a major arena for corporate activity; the Internet's content is highly partisan; and above all, extensive dialogue and critical discussion (the very essence of the public sphere) is often absent on the Net. The article argues that open-platform Public Service Media (PSM) are capable of developing more comprehensive and inclusive social frameworks than online providers. Despite the growing financial gulf between PSM and their commercial competitors, public institutions should be free to expand online and into different platforms. As trusted media brands, PSM contribute to the creation of an inclusive public sphere, enhanced civic engagement and informed citizenship."]
['Jarman, Holly', 'Collaboration and Consultation: Functional Representation in EU Stakeholder Dialogues', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/07036337.2011.579748', 'Abstract In the past decade, the EU has experimented with various types of consultation mechanisms intended to address perceived deficits in policy knowledge and decision-making legitimacy within the European system. I examine attempts by the European Commission to build up its decision-making legitimacy and inform policy via various formal mechanisms, focusing on the extent to which the relationship between the Commission and its civil society groups is collaborative or consultative. In particular, I examine two such experiments: The DG Trade Civil Society Dialogue (CSD) and the DG SANCO platform on Diet, Physical Activity and Health. DG Trade, a strong and relatively autonomous DG, developed a consultative model of engagement, gaining legitimation by consulting with advocacy groups. DG SANCO, working in areas where the EU competencies are weak, adopts a collaborative model in which it can set the agenda and structure debates but fundamentally depends on industry association partners, rather than its own legal powers, to achieve its goals. Abstract In the past decade, the EU has experimented with various types of consultation mechanisms intended to address perceived deficits in policy knowledge and decision-making legitimacy within the European system. I examine attempts by the European Commission to build up its decision-making legitimacy and inform policy via various formal mechanisms, focusing on the extent to which the relationship between the Commission and its civil society groups is collaborative or consultative. In particular, I examine two such experiments: The DG Trade Civil Society Dialogue (CSD) and the DG SANCO platform on Diet, Physical Activity and Health. DG Trade, a strong and relatively autonomous DG, developed a consultative model of engagement, gaining legitimation by consulting with advocacy groups. DG SANCO, working in areas where the EU competencies are weak, adopts a collaborative model in which it can set the agenda and structure debates but fundamentally depends on industry association partners, rather than its own legal powers, to achieve its goals.']
['Kollmann, Elizabeth Kunz; Reich, Christine; Bell, Larry & Goss, Juli', 'Tackling Tough Topics: Using Socio-Scientific Issues to Help Museum Visitors Participate in Democratic Dialogue and Increase Their Understandings of Current Science and Technology', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10598650.2013.11510768', "AbstractIn a world of increasing scientific and technological complexity, where science and technology play an expanding role in our lives, there is need for a democratic citizenry that is skilled at discussing and making choices that are informed by science and shaped by individual and collective values. Although an oft argued rationale for teaching science is the need for informed citizens, few have connected science education goals to democratic dialogue. At the Museum of Science, taking on this task?to promote democratic dialogue and teach the public about current science and technology?has meant a change in our approach to science education over the past decade. We know that creating an informed citizenry prepared to address today's challenges requires educating the public about cutting edge science and technology research connected to the issues of the day, but it also requires moving beyond a public understanding of science model to a public engagement with science model in which the public's expertise, values, and personal experience are respected, explored, and discussed. Socio-scientific topics ranging from ?Under what conditions should nanotechnology in medicine and personal care products be made available to the public?? to ?Should parents be able make decisions about their future child based upon their genetic sequence?? have proven to be an effective means to achieve the goals of public engagement mode. In the projects detailed here, we show how and why they also prove effective as a means by which science museums can promote democratic dialogue and learning about current science and technology. AbstractIn a world of increasing scientific and technological complexity, where science and technology play an expanding role in our lives, there is need for a democratic citizenry that is skilled at discussing and making choices that are informed by science and shaped by individual and collective values. Although an oft argued rationale for teaching science is the need for informed citizens, few have connected science education goals to democratic dialogue. At the Museum of Science, taking on this task?to promote democratic dialogue and teach the public about current science and technology?has meant a change in our approach to science education over the past decade. We know that creating an informed citizenry prepared to address today's challenges requires educating the public about cutting edge science and technology research connected to the issues of the day, but it also requires moving beyond a public understanding of science model to a public engagement with science model in which the public's expertise, values, and personal experience are respected, explored, and discussed. Socio-scientific topics ranging from ?Under what conditions should nanotechnology in medicine and personal care products be made available to the public?? to ?Should parents be able make decisions about their future child based upon their genetic sequence?? have proven to be an effective means to achieve the goals of public engagement mode. In the projects detailed here, we show how and why they also prove effective as a means by which science museums can promote democratic dialogue and learning about current science and technology."]
['Krishnan, Archana; Ferro, Enrico G.; Weikum, Damian; Vagenas, Panagiotis; Lama, Javier R.; Sanchez, Jorge & Altice, Frederick L.', 'Communication technology use and mHealth acceptance among HIV-infected men who have sex with men in Peru: implications for HIV prevention and treatment', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09540121.2014.963014', 'The HIV epidemic in Peru is concentrated among men who have sex with men (MSM). Given that MSM have been documented as early adopters of emerging technology, we examined communication technology access and utilization, and mobile health (mHealth) acceptance among Peruvian MSM and transgender women (TGW) in order to gauge opportunities for mHealth-enabled HIV interventions. A convenience sample of 359 HIV-infected MSM and TGW recruited from three sites in Lima, Peru completed standardized assessments of alcohol use disorders (AUDs), risky sexual behavior, and antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence along with self-constructed measures of communication technology access and utilization, and mHealth acceptance. Most participants (86%) had daily access to any cell phone, including smartphones (30%). The most frequent communication activities were receiving and making calls, and receiving and sending text messages using cell phones. On a 5-point Likert scale, participants expressed interest in using mHealth for medication reminders (M = 3.21, SD = 1.32) and engaging in anonymous online interactions with health professionals to discuss HIV-related issues (M = 3.56, SD = 1.33). Importantly, no significant differences were found in communication technology use and mHealth acceptance among participants with AUDs, depression, and suboptimal ART adherence, all of which are associated with poor HIV treatment outcomes. Findings show support for implementing mHealth-based intervention strategies using cell phones to assess and reduce HIV-risk behaviors among HIV-infected MSM and TGW. The HIV epidemic in Peru is concentrated among men who have sex with men (MSM). Given that MSM have been documented as early adopters of emerging technology, we examined communication technology access and utilization, and mobile health (mHealth) acceptance among Peruvian MSM and transgender women (TGW) in order to gauge opportunities for mHealth-enabled HIV interventions. A convenience sample of 359 HIV-infected MSM and TGW recruited from three sites in Lima, Peru completed standardized assessments of alcohol use disorders (AUDs), risky sexual behavior, and antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence along with self-constructed measures of communication technology access and utilization, and mHealth acceptance. Most participants (86%) had daily access to any cell phone, including smartphones (30%). The most frequent communication activities were receiving and making calls, and receiving and sending text messages using cell phones. On a 5-point Likert scale, participants expressed interest in using mHealth for medication reminders (M = 3.21, SD = 1.32) and engaging in anonymous online interactions with health professionals to discuss HIV-related issues (M = 3.56, SD = 1.33). Importantly, no significant differences were found in communication technology use and mHealth acceptance among participants with AUDs, depression, and suboptimal ART adherence, all of which are associated with poor HIV treatment outcomes. Findings show support for implementing mHealth-based intervention strategies using cell phones to assess and reduce HIV-risk behaviors among HIV-infected MSM and TGW.']
['Kwak, Nojin; Campbell, Scott W.; Choi, Junho & Bae, Soo Young', 'Mobile communication and public affairs engagement in Korea: an examination of non-linear relationships between mobile phone use and engagement across age groups', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01292986.2011.587016', 'This study examines the links between the use of mobile telephony and involvement in key areas of public life deemed important for a healthy society. We assess how three types of mobile phone uses (informational, relational, and social recreational) are related to two aspects of public affairs participation in South Korea (community engagement and political participation). Overall, findings in this study show significant roles of mobile phone use. For example, use of the mobile phone to seek out public affairs information and to discuss politics, i.e., informational use, was positively related to civic and political participation. Relational and social recreational use of the mobile phone was also found to have interesting and distinctive patterns of relationships with the criterion variables. Findings of this study mostly support the Mobile Reinforcement Hypothesis, which predicts that mobile communication primarily fuels trends already in place with the greatest benefits going to those who are already involved in public affairs, such as those who are older and with greater political interest. However, the observation of nonlinear relationships between mobile phone use and engagement dimensions along the age continuum strongly suggests that the political and civic role of mobile telephony is much more nuanced than previously assumed. This study examines the links between the use of mobile telephony and involvement in key areas of public life deemed important for a healthy society. We assess how three types of mobile phone uses (informational, relational, and social recreational) are related to two aspects of public affairs participation in South Korea (community engagement and political participation). Overall, findings in this study show significant roles of mobile phone use. For example, use of the mobile phone to seek out public affairs information and to discuss politics, i.e., informational use, was positively related to civic and political participation. Relational and social recreational use of the mobile phone was also found to have interesting and distinctive patterns of relationships with the criterion variables. Findings of this study mostly support the Mobile Reinforcement Hypothesis, which predicts that mobile communication primarily fuels trends already in place with the greatest benefits going to those who are already involved in public affairs, such as those who are older and with greater political interest. However, the observation of nonlinear relationships between mobile phone use and engagement dimensions along the age continuum strongly suggests that the political and civic role of mobile telephony is much more nuanced than previously assumed.']
['Labb\xc3\xa9, Jol\xc3\xa8ne; Dewey, Catherine E.; Weber, Laura Jane; McIntyre, Jennifer; Hoekstra, Kiera & Klapwyk, Cameron', 'Strategic planning through a participatory learning and action framework: a Kenyan study', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09614524.2015.1000828', 'This paper reflects on the use of a participatory learning and action (PLA) framework in a strategic planning process (SPP) at a primary school in rural Kenya. Successes and challenges are discussed, focusing on the barriers to fully implementing the PLA framework. Additionally, lessons learnt and ways forward for participatory SPPs are outlined. The PLA framework allowed the project stakeholders to engage in a planning process that gave participants a voice in the process. Although PLA methodology faces shortcomings, the application of this model is a step towards making community development more sustainable. This paper reflects on the use of a participatory learning and action (PLA) framework in a strategic planning process (SPP) at a primary school in rural Kenya. Successes and challenges are discussed, focusing on the barriers to fully implementing the PLA framework. Additionally, lessons learnt and ways forward for participatory SPPs are outlined. The PLA framework allowed the project stakeholders to engage in a planning process that gave participants a voice in the process. Although PLA methodology faces shortcomings, the application of this model is a step towards making community development more sustainable.']
['Langett, Jeremy', 'Blogger Engagement Ethics: Dialogic Civility in a Digital Era', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08900523.2013.751817', 'The role of social media as a vital component in an effective public relations plan has expanded strategic communication into digital space. Despite the rapid advancements of public relations opportunities within social media such as the blogosphere, guidelines for a prudent entry into this often personalized online territory are difficult to locate. This article extends beyond individual relationships characteristic of public relations practitioner-blogger discourse and promotes a dialogic approach to blogger outreach ethics. It ends with several recommendations for public relations practitioners seeking to facilitate dialogic civility within their own blogger engagement efforts. The role of social media as a vital component in an effective public relations plan has expanded strategic communication into digital space. Despite the rapid advancements of public relations opportunities within social media such as the blogosphere, guidelines for a prudent entry into this often personalized online territory are difficult to locate. This article extends beyond individual relationships characteristic of public relations practitioner-blogger discourse and promotes a dialogic approach to blogger outreach ethics. It ends with several recommendations for public relations practitioners seeking to facilitate dialogic civility within their own blogger engagement efforts.']
['Leckie, Civilai; Nyadzayo, Munyaradzi W. & Johnson, Lester W.', 'Antecedents of consumer brand engagement and brand loyalty', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/0267257X.2015.1131735', 'ABSTRACTLiterature on consumer engagement is growing significantly, yet there is limited empirical research on its drivers and outcomes. This study examines the key drivers and outcomes of consumer brand engagement (CBE) in the context of Australian mobile phone service providers. The results reveal that consumer involvement, consumer participation and self-expressive brand have differing effects on the CBE dimensions (cognitive processing, affection and activation) and brand loyalty. Specifically, involvement, participation and self-expressive brand are all found to positively impact cognitive processing. Also, involvement and self-expressive brand positively influence affection. While, a positive relationship is established between involvement and activation, self-expressive brand emerges as a negative driver of activation. Further, the results show that affection and activation positively influence brand loyalty. Surprisingly, cognitive processing negatively impacts brand loyalty, whilst involvement (unlike participation and self-expressive brand) has a positive direct effect on brand loyalty. Managerial and academic implications, as well as areas for future research are discussed. ABSTRACTLiterature on consumer engagement is growing significantly, yet there is limited empirical research on its drivers and outcomes. This study examines the key drivers and outcomes of consumer brand engagement (CBE) in the context of Australian mobile phone service providers. The results reveal that consumer involvement, consumer participation and self-expressive brand have differing effects on the CBE dimensions (cognitive processing, affection and activation) and brand loyalty. Specifically, involvement, participation and self-expressive brand are all found to positively impact cognitive processing. Also, involvement and self-expressive brand positively influence affection. While, a positive relationship is established between involvement and activation, self-expressive brand emerges as a negative driver of activation. Further, the results show that affection and activation positively influence brand loyalty. Surprisingly, cognitive processing negatively impacts brand loyalty, whilst involvement (unlike participation and self-expressive brand) has a positive direct effect on brand loyalty. Managerial and academic implications, as well as areas for future research are discussed.']
['Mare, Admire', 'New Media Technologies and Internal Newsroom Creativity in Mozambique', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21670811.2013.850196', 'This paper discusses the various ways in which a community newspaper in Mozambique is creatively appropriating new media technologies to enhance its news production and distribution practices. Far from being backward, the case of @Verdade demonstrates that despite being under-resourced, community newspapers in Africa are catching up in terms of creatively appropriating new media technologies. Besides spawning new ways of practising journalism, this article argues that the pervasiveness of new media technologies in the routines of the @Verdade newsroom has engendered collaborative storytelling while at the same time destabilizing traditional journalism?s ethical practices. Using data drawn from qualitative research, the study discusses how the use of social network sites, the mobile phone as well as the internet in general are aiding @Verdade to generate and engage with news sources as well as deliver content to diverse audiences. Drawing on structuration theory (as modified by Orlikowski) and the sociology of journalism approach, the paper argues that the disruptive impact of new media technologies needs to be understood as a duality of influences?the human agency of individual journalists and owners (internal newsroom creativity) vis-\xc3\xa0-vis the wider context of news production (restructuring of journalism practice). This paper discusses the various ways in which a community newspaper in Mozambique is creatively appropriating new media technologies to enhance its news production and distribution practices. Far from being backward, the case of @Verdade demonstrates that despite being under-resourced, community newspapers in Africa are catching up in terms of creatively appropriating new media technologies. Besides spawning new ways of practising journalism, this article argues that the pervasiveness of new media technologies in the routines of the @Verdade newsroom has engendered collaborative storytelling while at the same time destabilizing traditional journalism?s ethical practices. Using data drawn from qualitative research, the study discusses how the use of social network sites, the mobile phone as well as the internet in general are aiding @Verdade to generate and engage with news sources as well as deliver content to diverse audiences. Drawing on structuration theory (as modified by Orlikowski) and the sociology of journalism approach, the paper argues that the disruptive impact of new media technologies needs to be understood as a duality of influences?the human agency of individual journalists and owners (internal newsroom creativity) vis-\xc3\xa0-vis the wider context of news production (restructuring of journalism practice).']
['Martinello, Novella & Donelle, Lorie', 'Online conversations among Ontario university students: Environmental concerns', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.3109/17538157.2012.678448', "As the ?next generation? guardians of the environment, there appears to be limited inquiry into young Canadians' environmental concerns. At the same time, online social networking is a predominant method of communication among young adults. This research explored online conversations regarding environmental concerns among young Canadian adults targeting the university student population. A qualitative content analysis was conducted using posted conversations from the online social media network Facebook. Conversations addressing environmental issues were summarized into four major themes. The first theme, ?Built Environment? (127 postings) centred on housing and transportation. The second theme, ?Natural Environment? (55 postings) accounted for issues of air quality, pollution and water quality. The third theme, ?Environmental Restoration? (52 postings) highlighted young Canadian adults' plans for environmental recovery. The fourth theme, ?Engagement and Activism? (31 postings) underscored students' use of the online social networking site for environmental advocacy. Young adults appeared to be environmentally conscious and, through the use of social networking, exchanged knowledge and opinions, and advocated for environmental change. Online social networking sites, such as Facebook, can serve as a communication channel that facilitates health information sharing and more importantly cultivates community capacity focused on environmental health promotion among young adult users. As the ?next generation? guardians of the environment, there appears to be limited inquiry into young Canadians' environmental concerns. At the same time, online social networking is a predominant method of communication among young adults. This research explored online conversations regarding environmental concerns among young Canadian adults targeting the university student population. A qualitative content analysis was conducted using posted conversations from the online social media network Facebook. Conversations addressing environmental issues were summarized into four major themes. The first theme, ?Built Environment? (127 postings) centred on housing and transportation. The second theme, ?Natural Environment? (55 postings) accounted for issues of air quality, pollution and water quality. The third theme, ?Environmental Restoration? (52 postings) highlighted young Canadian adults' plans for environmental recovery. The fourth theme, ?Engagement and Activism? (31 postings) underscored students' use of the online social networking site for environmental advocacy. Young adults appeared to be environmentally conscious and, through the use of social networking, exchanged knowledge and opinions, and advocated for environmental change. Online social networking sites, such as Facebook, can serve as a communication channel that facilitates health information sharing and more importantly cultivates community capacity focused on environmental health promotion among young adult users."]
['Mills, Jane & Green, Bill', 'Popular Screen Culture and Digital Communication Technology in Literacy Learning: Toward a New Pedagogy of Cosmopolitanism', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01956051.2013.787355', 'Abstract This article discusses a trial project to explore the role of popular screen culture in student engagement levels, the capabilities of the smartphone camera for screen literacy learning, and the potential of digital communication technology for cultural participation and global citizenship. It asks if screen literacy learning so framed could point to a new pedagogy of cosmopolitanism. Abstract This article discusses a trial project to explore the role of popular screen culture in student engagement levels, the capabilities of the smartphone camera for screen literacy learning, and the potential of digital communication technology for cultural participation and global citizenship. It asks if screen literacy learning so framed could point to a new pedagogy of cosmopolitanism.']
['Mitchell, Jim & McDonald, Maria', 'Engaged Scholarship and Gerontological Program Relevance: Opportunities and Challenges', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02701960.2012.702168', 'Engaged scholarship promotes contribution to the academic body of knowledge through equal partnership between academic scholars and community representatives in education, research, and public service or intervention. Such partnerships can expand our notions of service learning and applied research. In this article, the authors discuss the potential contribution of engaged scholarship to the relevance of gerontological education and research programs. The authors discuss the role of engaged scholarship in the philosophy of education, in the promotion of social justice, and its relevance for the civic responsibility and accountability of educational institutions. Finally, the authors describe benefits and barriers to participation in engaged scholarship and challenges in the recruitment of engaged scholars. Engaged scholarship promotes contribution to the academic body of knowledge through equal partnership between academic scholars and community representatives in education, research, and public service or intervention. Such partnerships can expand our notions of service learning and applied research. In this article, the authors discuss the potential contribution of engaged scholarship to the relevance of gerontological education and research programs. The authors discuss the role of engaged scholarship in the philosophy of education, in the promotion of social justice, and its relevance for the civic responsibility and accountability of educational institutions. Finally, the authors describe benefits and barriers to participation in engaged scholarship and challenges in the recruitment of engaged scholars.']
['Moosavian, Rebecca', '\xe2\x80\x98Keep Calm and Carry On\xe2\x80\x99: informing the public under the Civil Contingencies Act 2004', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13642987.2014.889393', 'Part Iof the Civil Contingencies Act (CCA) 2004 provides a framework that governs the planning and preparations for a wide range of potential emergencies. It requires the engagement and cooperation of numerous ?public? bodies, including central government, local authorities and the emergency services, as well as a range of ?private? organisations such as utilities companies. It is apparent that information plays a fundamental role in the Part I planning provisions and associated guidance. This article will focus on one specific information-related provision, namely the duty to maintain plans to warn and inform the public in the event of an emergency. It undertakes detailed analysis of the CCA 2004 provisions, secondary legislation and extensive government guidance regarding informing the public and related media-handling. It analyses these measures in light of two competing organisational models identified by Walker and Broderick as being present across various CCA 2004 arrangements. The tensions between traditional authoritarian ?command? structures on the one hand, and more flexible, decentralised arrangements, on the other, are particularly pronounced in the context of informing the public. They reflect the challenges of maintaining political authority while handling and disseminating information that is fluid in nature and evades control. Part Iof the Civil Contingencies Act (CCA) 2004 provides a framework that governs the planning and preparations for a wide range of potential emergencies. It requires the engagement and cooperation of numerous ?public? bodies, including central government, local authorities and the emergency services, as well as a range of ?private? organisations such as utilities companies. It is apparent that information plays a fundamental role in the Part I planning provisions and associated guidance. This article will focus on one specific information-related provision, namely the duty to maintain plans to warn and inform the public in the event of an emergency. It undertakes detailed analysis of the CCA 2004 provisions, secondary legislation and extensive government guidance regarding informing the public and related media-handling. It analyses these measures in light of two competing organisational models identified by Walker and Broderick as being present across various CCA 2004 arrangements. The tensions between traditional authoritarian ?command? structures on the one hand, and more flexible, decentralised arrangements, on the other, are particularly pronounced in the context of informing the public. They reflect the challenges of maintaining political authority while handling and disseminating information that is fluid in nature and evades control.']
['Nussbaum, Tobias; Zorbas, Eugenia & Koros, Michael', 'A new deal for engagement in fragile states', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14678802.2012.744187', 'Well-established but, in fragile and conflict-affected state contexts, routinely overlooked aid effectiveness principles underlie the ?New Deal for Engagement in Fragile States? endorsed at the Busan High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness. In this sense, the New Deal is not new per se. What is novel is that the New Deal provides entry points to tackle the root causes of the lack of consistent application of aid principles and related practices. The New Deal brings together?arguably for the first time and on a more equal footing?recipient governments grouped under the g7+, OECD donors and other development partners including civil society organisations, for a frank discussion on the challenges of engaging in these difficult contexts. This article traces the genesis of the New Deal, describes its component parts and identifies four key implementation challenges. These are: achieving coherence across OECD countries? various sectoral policies (trade, agriculture, international development, etc.), working with actors such as Brazil and China, improving donors? risk management in an era of deficit reduction across many OECD economies, and attaining high-level political commitment for the New Deal and its five Peace-building and State-building Goals, including at the UN. Well-established but, in fragile and conflict-affected state contexts, routinely overlooked aid effectiveness principles underlie the ?New Deal for Engagement in Fragile States? endorsed at the Busan High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness. In this sense, the New Deal is not new per se. What is novel is that the New Deal provides entry points to tackle the root causes of the lack of consistent application of aid principles and related practices. The New Deal brings together?arguably for the first time and on a more equal footing?recipient governments grouped under the g7+, OECD donors and other development partners including civil society organisations, for a frank discussion on the challenges of engaging in these difficult contexts. This article traces the genesis of the New Deal, describes its component parts and identifies four key implementation challenges. These are: achieving coherence across OECD countries? various sectoral policies (trade, agriculture, international development, etc.), working with actors such as Brazil and China, improving donors? risk management in an era of deficit reduction across many OECD economies, and attaining high-level political commitment for the New Deal and its five Peace-building and State-building Goals, including at the UN.']
['Ogola, George', "Social media as a heteroglossic discursive space and Kenya's emergent alternative/citizen experiment", 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/23743670.2015.1119490', "ABSTRACTOver the past decade, Kenya's media landscape has witnessed a wave of transformative and disruptive technologies in the form of Web 2.0 applications, accessible through computers and now increasingly through mobile phones. These developments have since incubated two new critical media regimes. First, the country has seen the emergence of a new community of communication practitioners. Second, a new web-enabled communication infrastructure has made possible the broadening of the public sphere, encouraging public participation in news, with non-traditional journalistic platforms becoming important sites for ?alternative? journalism. This article critically reflects on how social media platforms such as Twitter (read here as a heteroglossic text and space) enable and encourage public participation in wider national conversations. The article explores this through the work of key bloggers/activists and citizen journalists, reflecting on how they construct as well as enable new participatory forms of civic/political engagement through Twitter. While the platform seems to have created its own hierarchies, horizontal participation is still much greater than with mainstream media formats. The discussion demonstrates the growing institutionalisation of the online space as an important platform for popular expression in Kenya, if at the same time offering an indictment of mainstream media's regime of ?closure? to outsider voices. ABSTRACTOver the past decade, Kenya's media landscape has witnessed a wave of transformative and disruptive technologies in the form of Web 2.0 applications, accessible through computers and now increasingly through mobile phones. These developments have since incubated two new critical media regimes. First, the country has seen the emergence of a new community of communication practitioners. Second, a new web-enabled communication infrastructure has made possible the broadening of the public sphere, encouraging public participation in news, with non-traditional journalistic platforms becoming important sites for ?alternative? journalism. This article critically reflects on how social media platforms such as Twitter (read here as a heteroglossic text and space) enable and encourage public participation in wider national conversations. The article explores this through the work of key bloggers/activists and citizen journalists, reflecting on how they construct as well as enable new participatory forms of civic/political engagement through Twitter. While the platform seems to have created its own hierarchies, horizontal participation is still much greater than with mainstream media formats. The discussion demonstrates the growing institutionalisation of the online space as an important platform for popular expression in Kenya, if at the same time offering an indictment of mainstream media's regime of ?closure? to outsider voices."]
['Papaioannou, Theo', 'From consultation to deliberation? A qualitative case study of governing science and technology projects for the public good', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09581596.2011.630979', 'The concept of ?public consultation? and the idea of ?democratic deliberation? describe different forms of engagement of various citizens and stakeholders in the governance of science and technology projects (STPs). On the one hand, public consultation is concerned with enhancing the quality of decisions through public understanding of a complex STP. On the other hand, democratic deliberation is concerned with taking quality decisions through communicative action and free argumentation between all parties affected. This article focuses on the STP of the UK Biobank, addressing the following question: which form of upstream engagement is required in governing the next phase of the UK Biobank for the public good of health? Drawing on political theory debates and qualitative evidence, it is argued that although ideal democratic governance of the (next phase of) UK Biobank requires transition from public consultation to democratic deliberation the latter faces practical limitations. Thus, deliberative engagement cannot be full in specific STPs for the public good of health. The concept of ?public consultation? and the idea of ?democratic deliberation? describe different forms of engagement of various citizens and stakeholders in the governance of science and technology projects (STPs). On the one hand, public consultation is concerned with enhancing the quality of decisions through public understanding of a complex STP. On the other hand, democratic deliberation is concerned with taking quality decisions through communicative action and free argumentation between all parties affected. This article focuses on the STP of the UK Biobank, addressing the following question: which form of upstream engagement is required in governing the next phase of the UK Biobank for the public good of health? Drawing on political theory debates and qualitative evidence, it is argued that although ideal democratic governance of the (next phase of) UK Biobank requires transition from public consultation to democratic deliberation the latter faces practical limitations. Thus, deliberative engagement cannot be full in specific STPs for the public good of health.']
['Poole, Kerry D.; Berson, Michael J. & Levine, Peter', 'On Becoming a Legislative Aide: Enhancing Civic Engagement Through a Digital Simulation', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01626620.2010.549733', "ABSTRACT Civics education in the United States often is designated as a low priority in the curriculum and is typically characterized by passive, rote learning that is centered around content and materials provided by textbook companies. Results from recent assessments of America's students suggest that the current generation possesses only a superficial knowledge of civics and is less engaged in traditional political activities. Some educators are looking beyond traditional methods of instruction and exploring how technology, computing, and gaming may be integrated with student learning, including service learning. This article describes the implementation of Legislative Aide software into high schools to support community-based research and service learning. Young people use this technological tool to role-play as aides to an imaginary local elected official in a virtual legislative office. The software guides the students in investigating real community problems and proposing real community action plans to address the problems. ABSTRACT Civics education in the United States often is designated as a low priority in the curriculum and is typically characterized by passive, rote learning that is centered around content and materials provided by textbook companies. Results from recent assessments of America's students suggest that the current generation possesses only a superficial knowledge of civics and is less engaged in traditional political activities. Some educators are looking beyond traditional methods of instruction and exploring how technology, computing, and gaming may be integrated with student learning, including service learning. This article describes the implementation of Legislative Aide software into high schools to support community-based research and service learning. Young people use this technological tool to role-play as aides to an imaginary local elected official in a virtual legislative office. The software guides the students in investigating real community problems and proposing real community action plans to address the problems."]
['Porter, Libby; Lombard, Melanie; Huxley, Margo; Ingin, Asl\xc4\xb1 K\xc4\xb1yak; Islam, Tolga; Briggs, John; Rukmana, Deden; Devlin, Ryan & Watson, Vanessa', 'Informality, the Commons and the Paradoxes for Planning: Concepts and Debates for Informality and Planning Self-Made Cities: Ordinary Informality? The Reordering of a Romany Neighbourhood The Land Formalisation Process and the Peri-Urban Zone of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania Street Vendors and Planning in Indonesian Cities Informal Urbanism in the USA: New Challenges for Theory and Practice Engaging with Citizenship and Urban Struggle Through an Informality Lens', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14649357.2011.545626', '']
['Ricke, LaChrystal', 'A New Opportunity for Democratic Engagement: The CNN-YouTube Presidential Candidate Debates', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19331681003772768', "ABSTRACT The 2007 CNN-YouTube Presidential Candidate Debates provided a unique opportunity for Americans to engage in national political discussion. For the first time in American political history, the public was invited into national debate discourse through submissions of video questions to YouTube for possible inclusion in two nationally broadcast candidate debates. Content analysis was used to examine the nearly 8,000 submissions to uncover both the demographic populations represented and the submitted questions' characteristics to determine if the debates provided a viable method for increasing citizen mobilization and redefining democratic participation in the Internet Age. Results indicate that traditionally politically underrepresented or disengaged populations were present in a significant number of submissions and that the submissions were politically substantive. ABSTRACT The 2007 CNN-YouTube Presidential Candidate Debates provided a unique opportunity for Americans to engage in national political discussion. For the first time in American political history, the public was invited into national debate discourse through submissions of video questions to YouTube for possible inclusion in two nationally broadcast candidate debates. Content analysis was used to examine the nearly 8,000 submissions to uncover both the demographic populations represented and the submitted questions' characteristics to determine if the debates provided a viable method for increasing citizen mobilization and redefining democratic participation in the Internet Age. Results indicate that traditionally politically underrepresented or disengaged populations were present in a significant number of submissions and that the submissions were politically substantive."]
['Rowe, Ian', 'Civility 2.0: a comparative analysis of incivility in online political discussion', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2014.940365', "In an effort to clean up user comment sections, news organizations have turned to Facebook, the world's largest social network site, as a way to make users more identifiable and accountable for the content they produce. It is hypothesized that users leaving comments via their Facebook profile will be less likely to engage in uncivil and impolite discussion, even when it comes to discussing politically sensitive and potentially divisive issues. By analysing the content of discussion as it occurs in response to political news content on the Washington Post Facebook, and comparing it to that which occurs on the Washington Post website where users are afforded a relatively high level of anonymity, the present study determines the extent to which Facebook increases the level of civility and impoliteness in an area of political discussion renowned for uncivil and impolite communicative behaviour. In line with earlier theories of social interaction, the paper finds that political discussion on The Washington Post website is significantly more likely to be uncivil than discussion of the same content on the Washington Post Facebook page. Moreover, the incivility and impoliteness on the Washington Post website are significantly more likely to be directed towards other participants in the discussion compared to The Washington Post Facebook page. In an effort to clean up user comment sections, news organizations have turned to Facebook, the world's largest social network site, as a way to make users more identifiable and accountable for the content they produce. It is hypothesized that users leaving comments via their Facebook profile will be less likely to engage in uncivil and impolite discussion, even when it comes to discussing politically sensitive and potentially divisive issues. By analysing the content of discussion as it occurs in response to political news content on the Washington Post Facebook, and comparing it to that which occurs on the Washington Post website where users are afforded a relatively high level of anonymity, the present study determines the extent to which Facebook increases the level of civility and impoliteness in an area of political discussion renowned for uncivil and impolite communicative behaviour. In line with earlier theories of social interaction, the paper finds that political discussion on The Washington Post website is significantly more likely to be uncivil than discussion of the same content on the Washington Post Facebook page. Moreover, the incivility and impoliteness on the Washington Post website are significantly more likely to be directed towards other participants in the discussion compared to The Washington Post Facebook page."]
['Scholz, Miklas; Hedmark, \xc3\x85sa & Hartley, William', 'Recent advances in sustainable multifunctional land and urban management in Europe: a review', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09640568.2011.628828', 'This review discusses high impact research in sustainable urban and land management. The focus is on large European projects that have a holistic and multi-disciplinary assessment approach towards the total environment. This paper clearly indicates that many projects propose decision-making tools partly supported by numerical models. Successful projects were identified as applying the following criteria: a communicative and holistic approach involving economic, environmental and social sciences throughout the project; sufficient geographic coverage; engagement of stakeholders from a wide variety of sectors; and plans for dissemination of project outcomes and active knowledge sharing. This review discusses high impact research in sustainable urban and land management. The focus is on large European projects that have a holistic and multi-disciplinary assessment approach towards the total environment. This paper clearly indicates that many projects propose decision-making tools partly supported by numerical models. Successful projects were identified as applying the following criteria: a communicative and holistic approach involving economic, environmental and social sciences throughout the project; sufficient geographic coverage; engagement of stakeholders from a wide variety of sectors; and plans for dissemination of project outcomes and active knowledge sharing.']
['Shklovski, Irina & de Souza e Silva, Adriana', 'AN URBAN ENCOUNTER', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2012.756049', 'Computing research has long been interested in location-aware mobile games, such as hybrid reality games, location-based games and urban games. With an increasingly pervasive IT infrastructure and comparatively affordable mobile devices, such games are becoming part of everyday play around the world. A study of an urban night-game called Encounter widely played in the Former Soviet Union and the Russian-speaking Diaspora is presented. The ways in which IT enables a complex interaction between the local experience of play in the urban environment and the geographically distributed nature of the player community are considered. The findings illustrate how this form of location-aware mobile game-play pulled together local engagement and global player communities into socio-technical assemblages, showing the interplay between local attachments, distant connections and the location-based communication in daily experience. The most important outcome of these games then was not the direct individual engagement with the urban environment through technology or the collaboration with strangers in the course of play (although these were the necessary prerequisites), but the social relationships that, while gained in-game, could be leveraged for civic engagement, belonging and mutual support. While the local, physical experience of the everyday and the game was important, the connections to the distributed community resulted in expanded horizons and changed the nature of the local experience as players felt they could belong to something larger than the locales they physically inhabited. Computing research has long been interested in location-aware mobile games, such as hybrid reality games, location-based games and urban games. With an increasingly pervasive IT infrastructure and comparatively affordable mobile devices, such games are becoming part of everyday play around the world. A study of an urban night-game called Encounter widely played in the Former Soviet Union and the Russian-speaking Diaspora is presented. The ways in which IT enables a complex interaction between the local experience of play in the urban environment and the geographically distributed nature of the player community are considered. The findings illustrate how this form of location-aware mobile game-play pulled together local engagement and global player communities into socio-technical assemblages, showing the interplay between local attachments, distant connections and the location-based communication in daily experience. The most important outcome of these games then was not the direct individual engagement with the urban environment through technology or the collaboration with strangers in the course of play (although these were the necessary prerequisites), but the social relationships that, while gained in-game, could be leveraged for civic engagement, belonging and mutual support. While the local, physical experience of the everyday and the game was important, the connections to the distributed community resulted in expanded horizons and changed the nature of the local experience as players felt they could belong to something larger than the locales they physically inhabited.']
['Smith, Elizabeth S. & Bressler, Alison', 'Who Taught You to Talk Like That?: The University and Online Political Discourse', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15512169.2013.835565', 'Rancorous dialogue among political opponents is nothing new in the American political system. However, in the past two decades or so, pundits and scholars have noted an increase in the overall intensity and frequency of incivility among elected officials and citizens. At the collegiate level, many universities have undertaken some form of civility initiative to help students learn how to address political conversation in a civil manner. However, these initiatives are problematic in that they may tend to attract those already predisposed to such civility goals and lack in external validity. In this article, we investigate how university communities may be able to use online discussions, particularly spontaneous ones, to address controversial political issues. Using the asynchronous online postings at one liberal arts university, Furman University, in response to a campus visit by George W. Bush, we investigate the nature of political discourse in these unstructured political conversations. Through content analysis, we assess the level of democratic incivility versus impoliteness in the discussion, the role of anonymity in facilitating incivility, and the potential of such online exchanges for use by colleges to help socialize young people into how to engage in effective and civil political discourse. Rancorous dialogue among political opponents is nothing new in the American political system. However, in the past two decades or so, pundits and scholars have noted an increase in the overall intensity and frequency of incivility among elected officials and citizens. At the collegiate level, many universities have undertaken some form of civility initiative to help students learn how to address political conversation in a civil manner. However, these initiatives are problematic in that they may tend to attract those already predisposed to such civility goals and lack in external validity. In this article, we investigate how university communities may be able to use online discussions, particularly spontaneous ones, to address controversial political issues. Using the asynchronous online postings at one liberal arts university, Furman University, in response to a campus visit by George W. Bush, we investigate the nature of political discourse in these unstructured political conversations. Through content analysis, we assess the level of democratic incivility versus impoliteness in the discussion, the role of anonymity in facilitating incivility, and the potential of such online exchanges for use by colleges to help socialize young people into how to engage in effective and civil political discourse.']
['Thompson, Michelle M.', 'The city of New Orleans blight fight: using GIS technology to integrate local knowledge', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10511482.2011.634427', "Planners have a unique ability to consume information and address both policy and practical issues on a variety of scales ? from neighborhood to regional to international. The use of information technology, specifically geographic information systems, continues to expand the planners' toolkit. Applying these tools requires planners to go beyond synchronous inductive and deductive reasoning and move towards ?integrated thinking?. Spatial literacy allows citizen planners to question and advocate for public policies based upon community data that has not been readily available to decision makers in municipal government. This report identifies examples of how a public participation geographic information system (PPGIS) increases engagement of stakeholders through increased access to and integration of municipal data. Post Hurricane Katrina, the Beacon of Hope ? University of New Orleans Community Recovery Project (BUCRP) led to a shift in citizen participation by a community-led PPGIS. The BUCRP follows standards and replicable training methods to improve accuracy and reliability of crowd sourcing data. The development of tools and traditions where community data complements municipal resources can be used in weak market cities and those urban areas devastated as a result of natural or man-made disasters. Planners have a unique ability to consume information and address both policy and practical issues on a variety of scales ? from neighborhood to regional to international. The use of information technology, specifically geographic information systems, continues to expand the planners' toolkit. Applying these tools requires planners to go beyond synchronous inductive and deductive reasoning and move towards ?integrated thinking?. Spatial literacy allows citizen planners to question and advocate for public policies based upon community data that has not been readily available to decision makers in municipal government. This report identifies examples of how a public participation geographic information system (PPGIS) increases engagement of stakeholders through increased access to and integration of municipal data. Post Hurricane Katrina, the Beacon of Hope ? University of New Orleans Community Recovery Project (BUCRP) led to a shift in citizen participation by a community-led PPGIS. The BUCRP follows standards and replicable training methods to improve accuracy and reliability of crowd sourcing data. The development of tools and traditions where community data complements municipal resources can be used in weak market cities and those urban areas devastated as a result of natural or man-made disasters."]
['Wells, Celeste C. & DeLeon, Daniel', 'Slam and the Citizen Orator: Teaching Civic Oration and Engagement through Spoken Word', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17404622.2015.1058405', "Courses: Introduction to Rhetoric; Rhetorical Theory; Persuasion, Public SpeakingObjectives: This single class discussion activity enables students to explain Quintilian's ?good man theory? of civic oration and apply it to present day civic engagement. Courses: Introduction to Rhetoric; Rhetorical Theory; Persuasion, Public SpeakingObjectives: This single class discussion activity enables students to explain Quintilian's ?good man theory? of civic oration and apply it to present day civic engagement."]
['Wen, Nainan & Cui, Di', "Effects of celebrity involvement on young people's political and civic engagement", 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17544750.2014.953964', "This study introduced the concept of celebrity involvement, which is the audiences' relationship with mediated celebrities along three sub-dimensions: affinity, parasocial relationships, and identification. Based on this concept, this study examined the underlying mechanisms through which young people's involvement with celebrities influences their political and civic engagement. A survey of 248 undergraduate students in Macau, which is a Special Administrative Region of China, showed an indirect association of celebrity involvement with political and civic engagement, which was mediated by situational involvement and self-efficacy, respectively. The implications of the findings are discussed. This study introduced the concept of celebrity involvement, which is the audiences' relationship with mediated celebrities along three sub-dimensions: affinity, parasocial relationships, and identification. Based on this concept, this study examined the underlying mechanisms through which young people's involvement with celebrities influences their political and civic engagement. A survey of 248 undergraduate students in Macau, which is a Special Administrative Region of China, showed an indirect association of celebrity involvement with political and civic engagement, which was mediated by situational involvement and self-efficacy, respectively. The implications of the findings are discussed."]
['Wray, Meredith', 'Adopting and implementing a transactive approach to sustainable tourism planning: translating theory into practice', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09669582.2011.566928', "This paper builds on the developing literature on stakeholder engagement, community participation and transactive planning for sustainable tourism. The attributes and conditions needed to foster effective partnerships in strategic tourism planning are discussed, and links to social learning explained. Practical applications of these concepts are demonstrated through case analyses of two-year-long strategic tourism planning processes undertaken for the Australian destination regions of Daylesford and Hepburn Springs (Victoria) and Byron Shire (New South Wales) during 2007?2008. Both used a comprehensive approach to stakeholder engagement, using a transactive planning approach that sought to establish a participatory and inclusive framework for stakeholders to engage in multi-loop learning and corresponding action to achieve sustainable tourism planning outcomes. A seven-stage stakeholder engagement process was used, bringing together stakeholder consultation workshops, setting up a destination planning website to accept broader community input, as well as creating Stakeholder Reference Groups and citizen's juries. The process continued with consultation reports, workshops, draft plans and the communication and implementation of the final plan. The outcomes of the two planning processes were, however, very different, demonstrating the complexity of working in dynamic socio-political contexts, with greater success for the concept of ?enabler? organisations and problems for ?provider? organisations. This paper builds on the developing literature on stakeholder engagement, community participation and transactive planning for sustainable tourism. The attributes and conditions needed to foster effective partnerships in strategic tourism planning are discussed, and links to social learning explained. Practical applications of these concepts are demonstrated through case analyses of two-year-long strategic tourism planning processes undertaken for the Australian destination regions of Daylesford and Hepburn Springs (Victoria) and Byron Shire (New South Wales) during 2007?2008. Both used a comprehensive approach to stakeholder engagement, using a transactive planning approach that sought to establish a participatory and inclusive framework for stakeholders to engage in multi-loop learning and corresponding action to achieve sustainable tourism planning outcomes. A seven-stage stakeholder engagement process was used, bringing together stakeholder consultation workshops, setting up a destination planning website to accept broader community input, as well as creating Stakeholder Reference Groups and citizen's juries. The process continued with consultation reports, workshops, draft plans and the communication and implementation of the final plan. The outcomes of the two planning processes were, however, very different, demonstrating the complexity of working in dynamic socio-political contexts, with greater success for the concept of ?enabler? organisations and problems for ?provider? organisations."]
['Yigitcanlar, Tan', 'Smart cities: an effective urban development and management model?', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/07293682.2015.1019752', 'It is argued that the smart cities model promise solutions to fuel sustainable development and a high quality of life with a wise management of natural resources, through participatory action and engagement. The paper provides a critical review of this model and application attempts of smart urban technologies in contemporary cities by particularly looking into emerging practices of ubiquitous eco-cities as exemplar smart cities initiatives. Through a thorough review of literature and best practices on the smart cities model, this paper attempts to address the research question of whether smart cities model is just another fashionable city brand or an effective urban development and management model to solve the problems of our cities. The findings shed light on urban planning and development considerations for the integration of smart urban technologies and their possible implications in shaping up of the built environment to produce prosperous and sustainable urban futures. It is argued that the smart cities model promise solutions to fuel sustainable development and a high quality of life with a wise management of natural resources, through participatory action and engagement. The paper provides a critical review of this model and application attempts of smart urban technologies in contemporary cities by particularly looking into emerging practices of ubiquitous eco-cities as exemplar smart cities initiatives. Through a thorough review of literature and best practices on the smart cities model, this paper attempts to address the research question of whether smart cities model is just another fashionable city brand or an effective urban development and management model to solve the problems of our cities. The findings shed light on urban planning and development considerations for the integration of smart urban technologies and their possible implications in shaping up of the built environment to produce prosperous and sustainable urban futures.']
['Agnew, Stuart', 'Providers to enablers: reflections on the provision of positive activities targeting criminal and anti-social behaviour of young people', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21582041.2012.751504', 'In June 2009, grants ranging from \xc2\xa3200,000 to \xc2\xa3600,000 were awarded via the Youth Sector Development Fund to 25 Civil Society Organisations. Reflecting the need for active citizenship so evident in contemporary youth discourse, the grants were aimed at increasing the participation of young people in rural areas. This article discusses two diverse projects resulting from this initiative which were evaluated by academics from University Campus Suffolk. Based in the East of England, each project received a substantial amount of public funding, approximately \xc2\xa3600,000 and \xc2\xa3400,000, respectively, which brought specific challenges. Each project had similar overall goals: reducing anti-social behaviour; helping young people enter education, employment or training; providing positive activities and increasing protective factors in young people ? such as a demonstrable increase in emotional and social skills together with reducing the likelihood of engaging in harmful activities. This article acknowledges that both projects required a substantive amount of ?buy-in? from existing youth providers and additional stakeholders; however, differing levels of support are clearly evident in terms of actively supporting the overall goals of the projects. Whilst a considerable number of young people engaged with positive activities during this funding round, the lack of community involvement in the management of the projects may have had a negative impact upon local perceptions of young people. Sustainability of projects beyond the funding received was an area of priority for the funders. There is, however, little evidence of success for this outcome. The current expectation of local authorities to ?enable? rather than to ?provide? support is an interesting context through which to explore the varying levels of engagement stakeholders involved in these projects. In June 2009, grants ranging from \xc2\xa3200,000 to \xc2\xa3600,000 were awarded via the Youth Sector Development Fund to 25 Civil Society Organisations. Reflecting the need for active citizenship so evident in contemporary youth discourse, the grants were aimed at increasing the participation of young people in rural areas. This article discusses two diverse projects resulting from this initiative which were evaluated by academics from University Campus Suffolk. Based in the East of England, each project received a substantial amount of public funding, approximately \xc2\xa3600,000 and \xc2\xa3400,000, respectively, which brought specific challenges. Each project had similar overall goals: reducing anti-social behaviour; helping young people enter education, employment or training; providing positive activities and increasing protective factors in young people ? such as a demonstrable increase in emotional and social skills together with reducing the likelihood of engaging in harmful activities. This article acknowledges that both projects required a substantive amount of ?buy-in? from existing youth providers and additional stakeholders; however, differing levels of support are clearly evident in terms of actively supporting the overall goals of the projects. Whilst a considerable number of young people engaged with positive activities during this funding round, the lack of community involvement in the management of the projects may have had a negative impact upon local perceptions of young people. Sustainability of projects beyond the funding received was an area of priority for the funders. There is, however, little evidence of success for this outcome. The current expectation of local authorities to ?enable? rather than to ?provide? support is an interesting context through which to explore the varying levels of engagement stakeholders involved in these projects.']
['Alanne, Kari', 'An overview of game-based learning in building services engineering education', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03043797.2015.1056097', "To ensure proper competence development and short graduation times for engineering students, it is essential that the study motivation is encouraged by new learning methods. In game-based learning, the learner's engagement is increased and learning is made meaningful by applying game-like features such as competition and rewarding through virtual promotions or achievement badges. In this paper, the state of the art of game-based learning in building services engineering education at university level is reviewed and discussed. A systematic literature review indicates that educational games have been reported in the field of related disciplines, such as mechanical and civil engineering. The development of system-level educational games that realistically simulate work life in building services engineering is still in its infancy. Novel rewarding practices and more comprehensive approaches entailing the state-of-the-art information tools such as building information modelling, geographic information systems, building management systems and augmented reality are needed in the future. To ensure proper competence development and short graduation times for engineering students, it is essential that the study motivation is encouraged by new learning methods. In game-based learning, the learner's engagement is increased and learning is made meaningful by applying game-like features such as competition and rewarding through virtual promotions or achievement badges. In this paper, the state of the art of game-based learning in building services engineering education at university level is reviewed and discussed. A systematic literature review indicates that educational games have been reported in the field of related disciplines, such as mechanical and civil engineering. The development of system-level educational games that realistically simulate work life in building services engineering is still in its infancy. Novel rewarding practices and more comprehensive approaches entailing the state-of-the-art information tools such as building information modelling, geographic information systems, building management systems and augmented reality are needed in the future."]
['Alcorn, Janis B.; Zarzycki, Alejo & de la Cruz, Luis Maria', 'Poverty, governance and conservation in the Gran Chaco of South America', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14888386.2010.9712645', "Abstract The Gran Chaco is the second largest ecosystem in the Plata basin of South America, after the Amazon rainforest. The high biological and cultural diversity offer diverse opportunities for conservation, despite development threatening both of them. The greatest concentration of biodiversity remain in areas of northern Argentina and southern Bolivia where levels of poverty are very high, and indigenous peoples and poor criollo cattle raisers coexist. By improving informed governance, it is possible to stabilize biodiversity levels and provide a basis for poor local people to collaborate, and to improve their situation in the face of threats from development. In this study we analyze the ongoing processes being applied in two Gran Chaco cases?from the Upper Parapeti Basin (upriver from Kaa Iya National Park) in Bolivia, and the Lower Pilcomayo in northern Argentina (a dynamic internal delta ecosystem where a tri-national biosphere reserve is being considered). Watershed management, when adapted to local ecological, cultural, social and political contexts, is shown to be an effective tactical strategy to activate moribund governmental institutions in response to local constituencies. In the two cases presented, NGO-facilitated processes enriched local people's ability to take their own actions and to assess and frame their problems and goals for dialogue with their governments. The NGOs also offered technical assistance with land-use zoning, reforestation and alternative income-generation activities in collaborations that shifted government engagement. The methods used differ from the standard conservation and development projects, and their success offers lessons in building social network systems and civic science that improve conservation and reduce poverty. We close with a reflection on the framing of poverty alleviation and sustainability in conservation discourse. Abstract The Gran Chaco is the second largest ecosystem in the Plata basin of South America, after the Amazon rainforest. The high biological and cultural diversity offer diverse opportunities for conservation, despite development threatening both of them. The greatest concentration of biodiversity remain in areas of northern Argentina and southern Bolivia where levels of poverty are very high, and indigenous peoples and poor criollo cattle raisers coexist. By improving informed governance, it is possible to stabilize biodiversity levels and provide a basis for poor local people to collaborate, and to improve their situation in the face of threats from development. In this study we analyze the ongoing processes being applied in two Gran Chaco cases?from the Upper Parapeti Basin (upriver from Kaa Iya National Park) in Bolivia, and the Lower Pilcomayo in northern Argentina (a dynamic internal delta ecosystem where a tri-national biosphere reserve is being considered). Watershed management, when adapted to local ecological, cultural, social and political contexts, is shown to be an effective tactical strategy to activate moribund governmental institutions in response to local constituencies. In the two cases presented, NGO-facilitated processes enriched local people's ability to take their own actions and to assess and frame their problems and goals for dialogue with their governments. The NGOs also offered technical assistance with land-use zoning, reforestation and alternative income-generation activities in collaborations that shifted government engagement. The methods used differ from the standard conservation and development projects, and their success offers lessons in building social network systems and civic science that improve conservation and reduce poverty. We close with a reflection on the framing of poverty alleviation and sustainability in conservation discourse."]
['Alpert, Carol Lynn', 'Broadening and Deepening the Impact: A Theoretical Framework for Partnerships between Science Museums and STEM Research Centres', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02691720903364142', 'The requirement by the National Science Foundation (NSF) that research proposals include plans for ?broader impact? activities to foster connections between Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) research and service to society has been controversial since it was first introduced. A chief complaint is that the requirement diverts time and resources from the focus of research and toward activities for which researchers may not be well prepared. This paper describes the theoretical framework underlying a new strategy to pair NSF?funded nano research centres with science museums in order to achieve greater success in the broader impact mission, and to transform the perceived burden of the requirement into an opportunity to provide enhanced value to the constituencies of the partnering organizations, as well as to the larger community. This partnership approach is presented as a model that also can be applied to NSF?funded research centres in other STEM fields, and to non?NSF?funded STEM research centres nevertheless looking to pursue broader impacts types of activities. The model also provides an opportunity to stretch the typical spectrum of broader impacts activities to include citizen engagement in science, technology and societal concerns. The requirement by the National Science Foundation (NSF) that research proposals include plans for ?broader impact? activities to foster connections between Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) research and service to society has been controversial since it was first introduced. A chief complaint is that the requirement diverts time and resources from the focus of research and toward activities for which researchers may not be well prepared. This paper describes the theoretical framework underlying a new strategy to pair NSF?funded nano research centres with science museums in order to achieve greater success in the broader impact mission, and to transform the perceived burden of the requirement into an opportunity to provide enhanced value to the constituencies of the partnering organizations, as well as to the larger community. This partnership approach is presented as a model that also can be applied to NSF?funded research centres in other STEM fields, and to non?NSF?funded STEM research centres nevertheless looking to pursue broader impacts types of activities. The model also provides an opportunity to stretch the typical spectrum of broader impacts activities to include citizen engagement in science, technology and societal concerns.']
['Aricat, Rajiv George', 'Mobile/Social Media Use for Political Purposes Among Migrant Laborers in Singapore', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19331681.2014.994156', 'ABSTRACTPolitical participation has generally been evaluated among civic resident populations using the indices of voting and campaign participation. However, migrants? engagement with politics in their home country has become increasingly virtual with the advent of mobile/social media, suggesting a need to go beyond traditional theorizations. This article tries to understand how affordances of new media are leveraged by migrants with different political orientations as they engaged politically with their homeland. Two contexts were identified to understand their transnational political exchanges: (a) elections in homeland India, and (b) the backdrop of various civil society movements. In-depth interviews were conducted among 31 Indian migrants in Singapore with diverse political ideologies and linguistic backgrounds. Calling, messaging, sharing of news stories/posts, and commenting were the most commonly used mobile affordances. Social constructivist tradition in technology appropriation found support in the way respondents tested the affordances of mobile/social media before adding them to their usage repertoire. Due to limited political entitlements and lack of leeway in work schedules, no goal-oriented use of communication technologies was made. Political discussion hardly led to political action?such as demonstrations or public speeches?in the host country. ABSTRACTPolitical participation has generally been evaluated among civic resident populations using the indices of voting and campaign participation. However, migrants? engagement with politics in their home country has become increasingly virtual with the advent of mobile/social media, suggesting a need to go beyond traditional theorizations. This article tries to understand how affordances of new media are leveraged by migrants with different political orientations as they engaged politically with their homeland. Two contexts were identified to understand their transnational political exchanges: (a) elections in homeland India, and (b) the backdrop of various civil society movements. In-depth interviews were conducted among 31 Indian migrants in Singapore with diverse political ideologies and linguistic backgrounds. Calling, messaging, sharing of news stories/posts, and commenting were the most commonly used mobile affordances. Social constructivist tradition in technology appropriation found support in the way respondents tested the affordances of mobile/social media before adding them to their usage repertoire. Due to limited political entitlements and lack of leeway in work schedules, no goal-oriented use of communication technologies was made. Political discussion hardly led to political action?such as demonstrations or public speeches?in the host country.']
['Bauermeister, Maxine L. & Diefenbacher, Lori H.', 'Beyond Recycling: Guiding Preservice Teachers to Understand and Incorporate the Deeper Principles of Sustainability', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00094056.2015.1090843', "Sustainability is a term with an evolving definition that applies to more than the physical environment. It speaks to the interconnectivity of every action we take (or fail to take) and to human beings' relationships with one another and their environment. A sustainable future is one in which global citizens engage in critical thinking, problem-solving, and collaboration to create a just and equitable society for all. Teachers have a role in cultivating these critical competencies?and the knowledge to go along with them?in their students. As the authors point out, this involves much more than a simple classroom recycling project or a field trip to the zoo. A broad conception of sustainability will foster students' ability to understand and live harmoniously in diverse societies. Through a holistic approach to sustainability, teachers can model for students how we can bring about a more peaceful and compassionate future. Sustainability is a term with an evolving definition that applies to more than the physical environment. It speaks to the interconnectivity of every action we take (or fail to take) and to human beings' relationships with one another and their environment. A sustainable future is one in which global citizens engage in critical thinking, problem-solving, and collaboration to create a just and equitable society for all. Teachers have a role in cultivating these critical competencies?and the knowledge to go along with them?in their students. As the authors point out, this involves much more than a simple classroom recycling project or a field trip to the zoo. A broad conception of sustainability will foster students' ability to understand and live harmoniously in diverse societies. Through a holistic approach to sustainability, teachers can model for students how we can bring about a more peaceful and compassionate future."]
['Bessant, Judith', 'Digital Spring? New media and new politics on the campus', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01596306.2012.745734', 'Whilst the dynamics informing processes have taken time to become clear, civic resistance initiated by young people using new media began in Egypt in 2010 against the Mubarak regime, soon widened to Tunisia, Yemen and Libya. Known as the ?Arab Spring?, this phenomenon re-ignited discussion about the political role of digital space and its democratic potential. While parallels between authoritarian regimes and universities and educational institutions might seem overdrawn to some readers, I suggest there is value in considering the ?Digital Spring? (apropos the ?Arab Spring?) as a metaphor to suggest the possibility that similar processes are taking place in schools and universities. This invites discussion about the political significance of digital space and its democratic potential in those institutions. To assess how some young people engage in digitally mediated politics within schools and universities, I identify five propositions which amalgamate descriptive and normative elements derived from Habermas and Dahlgren. These propositions offer an ideal taxonomy of normative and descriptive elements to establish whether digital technology promotes participation and debate in ways that sustain democratic practice. Whilst the dynamics informing processes have taken time to become clear, civic resistance initiated by young people using new media began in Egypt in 2010 against the Mubarak regime, soon widened to Tunisia, Yemen and Libya. Known as the ?Arab Spring?, this phenomenon re-ignited discussion about the political role of digital space and its democratic potential. While parallels between authoritarian regimes and universities and educational institutions might seem overdrawn to some readers, I suggest there is value in considering the ?Digital Spring? (apropos the ?Arab Spring?) as a metaphor to suggest the possibility that similar processes are taking place in schools and universities. This invites discussion about the political significance of digital space and its democratic potential in those institutions. To assess how some young people engage in digitally mediated politics within schools and universities, I identify five propositions which amalgamate descriptive and normative elements derived from Habermas and Dahlgren. These propositions offer an ideal taxonomy of normative and descriptive elements to establish whether digital technology promotes participation and debate in ways that sustain democratic practice.']
['Black, Laura W. & Wiederhold, Anna', 'Discursive Strategies of Civil Disagreement in Public Dialogue Groups', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00909882.2014.911938', "This case study investigates how participants in public dialogue sessions engaged in what they term ?civil disagreement.? These sessions encouraged participants to explore a wide range of policy options on a public issue and consider diverse perspectives and possibilities for action. Using Action Implicative Discourse Analysis, we examine civil disagreement as a discursive problem. We argue that ?civil disagreement? in public dialogue sessions is temporally bound, involves extended engagement in disagreement, and is viewed as productive by group members. Group members use discursive strategies such as challenging through questions, rearticulating claims while acknowledging other perspectives, and editing or reframing. Group members also use silence to demonstrate listening or to indicate their assessment of the situation as finalized. These discursive strategies demonstrate aspects of participants' situated ideals about public dialogue, which are related to their role in the disagreement and their construals of time. We offer practical implications for facilitators' use of guidelines, discussion of timing, and awareness of the multiple meanings of silence during disagreement. This case study investigates how participants in public dialogue sessions engaged in what they term ?civil disagreement.? These sessions encouraged participants to explore a wide range of policy options on a public issue and consider diverse perspectives and possibilities for action. Using Action Implicative Discourse Analysis, we examine civil disagreement as a discursive problem. We argue that ?civil disagreement? in public dialogue sessions is temporally bound, involves extended engagement in disagreement, and is viewed as productive by group members. Group members use discursive strategies such as challenging through questions, rearticulating claims while acknowledging other perspectives, and editing or reframing. Group members also use silence to demonstrate listening or to indicate their assessment of the situation as finalized. These discursive strategies demonstrate aspects of participants' situated ideals about public dialogue, which are related to their role in the disagreement and their construals of time. We offer practical implications for facilitators' use of guidelines, discussion of timing, and awareness of the multiple meanings of silence during disagreement."]
['Brinkhurst, Emma', "Archives and Access: Reaching Out to the Somali Community of London's King's Cross", 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17411912.2012.689470', "As an oral society with no official written language until 1972, Somali history and cultural knowledge are predominantly stored in the memories of individuals and the concept of a physical repository such as a sound archive is alien within Somali culture. Following Somalia's civil war and the dispersal of over two million of its people, a Somali community has developed in the King's Cross area of London, which is home to the British Library (BL). As neighbours, the Somali community and the BL are geographically close but ideologically distant. However, facilitating engagement between Somali residents of King's Cross and archival recordings from Somalia held at the BL has demonstrated the potential of proactive archiving to contribute to ethnomusicological research methodology, to elucidate and impact upon diasporic and collective memory processes, and to benefit diasporic communities. In this article I will highlight the capacity of archival recordings to unlock embodied memories and reconnect those who have been subject to dislocation with aspects of their past identities, arguing that proactive archiving has the potential to contribute to the diasporic process of belonging to multiple locales. I will explore the challenges of collaboration between an institution such as the BL and an orally-founded refugee community, looking at the significance of key sites and individuals in the transmission of information. As an oral society with no official written language until 1972, Somali history and cultural knowledge are predominantly stored in the memories of individuals and the concept of a physical repository such as a sound archive is alien within Somali culture. Following Somalia's civil war and the dispersal of over two million of its people, a Somali community has developed in the King's Cross area of London, which is home to the British Library (BL). As neighbours, the Somali community and the BL are geographically close but ideologically distant. However, facilitating engagement between Somali residents of King's Cross and archival recordings from Somalia held at the BL has demonstrated the potential of proactive archiving to contribute to ethnomusicological research methodology, to elucidate and impact upon diasporic and collective memory processes, and to benefit diasporic communities. In this article I will highlight the capacity of archival recordings to unlock embodied memories and reconnect those who have been subject to dislocation with aspects of their past identities, arguing that proactive archiving has the potential to contribute to the diasporic process of belonging to multiple locales. I will explore the challenges of collaboration between an institution such as the BL and an orally-founded refugee community, looking at the significance of key sites and individuals in the transmission of information."]
['Byrne, Jenny; Ideland, Malin; Malmberg, Claes & Grace, Marcus', 'Climate Change and Everyday Life: Repertoires children use to negotiate a socio-scientific issue', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09500693.2014.891159', "There are only a few studies about how primary school students engage in socio-scientific discussions. This study aims to add to this field of research by focusing on how 9?10-year-olds in Sweden and England handle climate change as a complex environmental socio-scientific issue (SSI), within the context of their own lives and in relation to society at large. It focuses on how different interpretative repertoires were used by the students in discussions to legitimise or question their everyday lifestyles. They discussed four possible options that a government might consider to help reduce carbon dioxide production. Six main repertoires were identified: Everyday life, Self-Interest, Environment, Science and Technology, Society and Justice. The Everyday life repertoire was used when students related their discussion to their everyday lifestyles. Science and technology-related solutions were offered to maintain or improve things, but these were sometimes rather unrealistic. Arguments related to environment and health frequently appeared to have a superior status compared to the others. Findings also highlighted how conflicts between the students were actually productive by bringing in several perspectives to negotiate the solutions. These primary school students were, therefore, able to discuss and negotiate a complex real-world SSI. Students positioned themselves as active contributors to society, using their life experiences and limited knowledge to understand the problems that affected their everyday lives. Honing these skills within a school science community of practice could facilitate primary students' engagement with SSIs and empower them as citizens. There are only a few studies about how primary school students engage in socio-scientific discussions. This study aims to add to this field of research by focusing on how 9?10-year-olds in Sweden and England handle climate change as a complex environmental socio-scientific issue (SSI), within the context of their own lives and in relation to society at large. It focuses on how different interpretative repertoires were used by the students in discussions to legitimise or question their everyday lifestyles. They discussed four possible options that a government might consider to help reduce carbon dioxide production. Six main repertoires were identified: Everyday life, Self-Interest, Environment, Science and Technology, Society and Justice. The Everyday life repertoire was used when students related their discussion to their everyday lifestyles. Science and technology-related solutions were offered to maintain or improve things, but these were sometimes rather unrealistic. Arguments related to environment and health frequently appeared to have a superior status compared to the others. Findings also highlighted how conflicts between the students were actually productive by bringing in several perspectives to negotiate the solutions. These primary school students were, therefore, able to discuss and negotiate a complex real-world SSI. Students positioned themselves as active contributors to society, using their life experiences and limited knowledge to understand the problems that affected their everyday lives. Honing these skills within a school science community of practice could facilitate primary students' engagement with SSIs and empower them as citizens."]
['Case, Robert & Caragata, Lea', 'The Emergence of a New Social Movement: Social Networks and Collective Action on Water Issues in Guelph, Ontario', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15575330903091738', 'For new social movement theorists, changes in Western capitalist societies brought about by the transition from an industrial to a post-industrial era are fundamental to understanding the formation, structure, and operation of new social movements. Using observational and interview data from a 2008 World Water Day rally, this article draws on and examines theoretical contributions of New Social Movement theorists Alain Touraine, Alberto Melucci, and Claus Offe to inform an exploration and analysis of growing collective action on water issues in Guelph, Ontario. The authors argue that growing citizen engagement in water issues in Guelph and area, operating primarily through loosely organized informal social networks, represents growing collective action that constitutes a vibrant New Social Movement. So conceptualized, the authors discuss implications for theoretical understandings of citizen mobilization in general and for the strengthening of collective action on water itself. For new social movement theorists, changes in Western capitalist societies brought about by the transition from an industrial to a post-industrial era are fundamental to understanding the formation, structure, and operation of new social movements. Using observational and interview data from a 2008 World Water Day rally, this article draws on and examines theoretical contributions of New Social Movement theorists Alain Touraine, Alberto Melucci, and Claus Offe to inform an exploration and analysis of growing collective action on water issues in Guelph, Ontario. The authors argue that growing citizen engagement in water issues in Guelph and area, operating primarily through loosely organized informal social networks, represents growing collective action that constitutes a vibrant New Social Movement. So conceptualized, the authors discuss implications for theoretical understandings of citizen mobilization in general and for the strengthening of collective action on water itself.']
['Chataway, Teresa', 'Cosmopolitical Citizenship', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10383441.2010.10854682', 'National citizenship is challenged by two contrasting claims: a state?s exclusivity in determining the conditions for inclusion of its own citizens, and the universal inclusiveness of everyone within and beyond national boundaries. Globalisation has increased the demand for human rights, the recognition of identity and culture, and social justice. Today, however, many persons cannot meet the conditions prescribed by national citizenship. This article considers an alternative model: cosmopolitical citizenship, which is based on Kant?s jus cosmopoliticum. This third level of law allows all world citizens to exercise their rights and duties in multiple sites of political and legal responsibility. The article has five sections. First, Kant?s cosmopolitical conception is defined. Relevant interpretations by Derrida, Bobbio and Beck expand on this definition. The subsequent analysis engages with recent writings by Benhabib, Balibar and Isin, and within that theoretical context considers the European Union?s dual citizenship, regarded as a precursor of the cosmopolitical, but contested by Bigo. Notwithstanding, these authors are experimenting with cosmopolitical citizenship. Fourth, influences of Web 2.0 technologies on citizenship are discussed. Fifth, a synthesis of the conceptual and substantive developments in the citizenship debate reveals an increasing acceptance of the cosmopolitical principle, and its capacity to render citizenship more fluid and responsive as seen through the eyes of others. National citizenship is challenged by two contrasting claims: a state?s exclusivity in determining the conditions for inclusion of its own citizens, and the universal inclusiveness of everyone within and beyond national boundaries. Globalisation has increased the demand for human rights, the recognition of identity and culture, and social justice. Today, however, many persons cannot meet the conditions prescribed by national citizenship. This article considers an alternative model: cosmopolitical citizenship, which is based on Kant?s jus cosmopoliticum. This third level of law allows all world citizens to exercise their rights and duties in multiple sites of political and legal responsibility. The article has five sections. First, Kant?s cosmopolitical conception is defined. Relevant interpretations by Derrida, Bobbio and Beck expand on this definition. The subsequent analysis engages with recent writings by Benhabib, Balibar and Isin, and within that theoretical context considers the European Union?s dual citizenship, regarded as a precursor of the cosmopolitical, but contested by Bigo. Notwithstanding, these authors are experimenting with cosmopolitical citizenship. Fourth, influences of Web 2.0 technologies on citizenship are discussed. Fifth, a synthesis of the conceptual and substantive developments in the citizenship debate reveals an increasing acceptance of the cosmopolitical principle, and its capacity to render citizenship more fluid and responsive as seen through the eyes of others.']
['Chen, Nien-Tsu Nancy; Ognyanova, Katherine; Zhang, Chi; Wang, Cynthia; Ball-Rokeach, Sandra J. & Parks, Michael', 'Causing Ripples in Local Power Relations', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1461670X.2015.1078738', 'Hyperlocal news operations have been considered a promising alternative to the shrinking legacy media for sustaining civic discourse and engagement in local communities. However, these operations? meso-level influence on civic engagement has not been widely investigated. Building upon the Media System Dependency theory, this article proposed an analytical framework for assessing such influence. This framework was applied to an ethnically diverse city as a case study, and 15 interviews with city officials and legacy media reporters helped elucidate the ways in which organizational actors might respond to the entry of a non-commercial, participatory local news website. The implications of these organizational responses for shifting the power?dependency relation between the local media and political systems were discussed, and the findings pointed to both promises and barriers in materializing the democratic potential of hyperlocal news websites while calling for more research across different community contexts. Hyperlocal news operations have been considered a promising alternative to the shrinking legacy media for sustaining civic discourse and engagement in local communities. However, these operations? meso-level influence on civic engagement has not been widely investigated. Building upon the Media System Dependency theory, this article proposed an analytical framework for assessing such influence. This framework was applied to an ethnically diverse city as a case study, and 15 interviews with city officials and legacy media reporters helped elucidate the ways in which organizational actors might respond to the entry of a non-commercial, participatory local news website. The implications of these organizational responses for shifting the power?dependency relation between the local media and political systems were discussed, and the findings pointed to both promises and barriers in materializing the democratic potential of hyperlocal news websites while calling for more research across different community contexts.']
['Chowdhary, Hemant & Singh, Vijay P.', 'On Watershed Management', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15427520802646083', 'Significant developments have occurred in India in the past three to four decades with respect to the state of natural resources and human population, as part of various watershed programs. Much experience has been gained by governmental and non-governmental institutions and by the stakeholders engaged in these endeavors. Although there are many success stories that credit these interventions, much more effort is required to bring the benefits to all regions and remote areas of the country. There have been many management practices and intervention strategies that have evolved from this long learning process, but more pointed research in this regard is required for developing newer technological methods suited for specific situations. Greater research is needed for identifying better institutional strategies applicable to watershed management in different socio-economic conditions and in different physiographic regions of the country. One of the major impediments to the success of most watershed programs is the lack of coordination among the many governmental institutions mandated to run these developmental plans. A sizable amount of about Rs. 1,600 crores is invested annually in improving the conditions of watersheds around the country. Watershed programs can become much more efficient and cost-effective if the roles and responsibilities of all the partners and stakeholders are clearly defined and followed up for ensuring stricter accountability. A countrywide comprehensive and integrated watershed management information system that utilizes the state-of-the-art GIS, database, and web technologies will further consolidate achievements and improve accountability and efficiency of watershed management programs. This paper draws a few comparisons with watershed programs in the United States and offers suggestions for improving the effectiveness and sustainability of these programs. Significant developments have occurred in India in the past three to four decades with respect to the state of natural resources and human population, as part of various watershed programs. Much experience has been gained by governmental and non-governmental institutions and by the stakeholders engaged in these endeavors. Although there are many success stories that credit these interventions, much more effort is required to bring the benefits to all regions and remote areas of the country. There have been many management practices and intervention strategies that have evolved from this long learning process, but more pointed research in this regard is required for developing newer technological methods suited for specific situations. Greater research is needed for identifying better institutional strategies applicable to watershed management in different socio-economic conditions and in different physiographic regions of the country. One of the major impediments to the success of most watershed programs is the lack of coordination among the many governmental institutions mandated to run these developmental plans. A sizable amount of about Rs. 1,600 crores is invested annually in improving the conditions of watersheds around the country. Watershed programs can become much more efficient and cost-effective if the roles and responsibilities of all the partners and stakeholders are clearly defined and followed up for ensuring stricter accountability. A countrywide comprehensive and integrated watershed management information system that utilizes the state-of-the-art GIS, database, and web technologies will further consolidate achievements and improve accountability and efficiency of watershed management programs. This paper draws a few comparisons with watershed programs in the United States and offers suggestions for improving the effectiveness and sustainability of these programs.']
['Comunello, Francesca & Anzera, Giuseppe', 'Will the revolution be tweeted? A conceptual framework for understanding the social media and the Arab Spring', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09596410.2012.712435', 'The goal of this article is to build a conceptual framework for understanding the role of social media in the so-called ?Arab Spring?, considering two different disciplinary perspectives: International Relations and Internet Studies. More specifically, it relies on literature on Middle Eastern political systems and on social network sites. It also refers to literature that examines the relationship between (social) media engagement and civic engagement. Building on this foundation, the article analyses the main attempts to evaluate the ?impact? of social media on the ?Arab Spring? from specific perspectives. Commentators have tended to adopt a dichotomous vision of the topic, either emphasizing the ?revolutionary? role of social media or totally minimizing its role; this article defines them as digital evangelists and techno-realists respectively. In order to prove their point of view, both sides focus on the same issues. The study critically analyses the main issues, discussing how they have been interpreted by both digital evangelists and techno-realists. Through a multidisciplinary framework, it proposes a more nuanced picture of the relationship between the social media and the ?Arab Spring?. The goal of this article is to build a conceptual framework for understanding the role of social media in the so-called ?Arab Spring?, considering two different disciplinary perspectives: International Relations and Internet Studies. More specifically, it relies on literature on Middle Eastern political systems and on social network sites. It also refers to literature that examines the relationship between (social) media engagement and civic engagement. Building on this foundation, the article analyses the main attempts to evaluate the ?impact? of social media on the ?Arab Spring? from specific perspectives. Commentators have tended to adopt a dichotomous vision of the topic, either emphasizing the ?revolutionary? role of social media or totally minimizing its role; this article defines them as digital evangelists and techno-realists respectively. In order to prove their point of view, both sides focus on the same issues. The study critically analyses the main issues, discussing how they have been interpreted by both digital evangelists and techno-realists. Through a multidisciplinary framework, it proposes a more nuanced picture of the relationship between the social media and the ?Arab Spring?.']
['Desai, Chandni', 'Shooting back in the occupied territories: An anti-colonial participatory politics', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03626784.2014.995062', "AbstractIn this article I argue that Palestinians, in particular Palestinian youth engage in forms of cultural resistance such as filming, video production and dissemination in their everyday lives as a way to re-configure place, space, law, knowledge and violence, through a critical race, feminist, anti-colonial theoretical analysis. Recently, interest in forms of youth political engagement has surfaced in scholarly discussions. The concept of ?participatory politics? has been used to frame discussions and analysis on youth engagement. I argue that the current conceptualization of participatory politics is limited when applied to colonial and occupation contexts, particular because political participation is premised on the recognition of citizens. I argue that this conceptualization of participatory politics needs to be extended, by taking into consideration the politics of refusal and revolutionary violence. I offer the concept of an anti-colonial participatory politics that considers these aspects as central to politics and political participation by analysing youth testimonies, video's and films produced by B'Tselem volunteers, Youth Against the Settlements and Emad Burnat (director of 5 Broken Cameras). I demonstrate how Palestinians are not merely reduced to bare life, but underscore how they actively resist their colonization. Additionally, drawing on Willis' (1990) notion of symbolic creativity, I suggest that through the symbolic work of shooting back (filming and video production) in their everyday lives, Palestinian youth enact public pedagogy, whereby cultural production becomes a site of teaching, learning and conscientization which could open up possibilities for social change. AbstractIn this article I argue that Palestinians, in particular Palestinian youth engage in forms of cultural resistance such as filming, video production and dissemination in their everyday lives as a way to re-configure place, space, law, knowledge and violence, through a critical race, feminist, anti-colonial theoretical analysis. Recently, interest in forms of youth political engagement has surfaced in scholarly discussions. The concept of ?participatory politics? has been used to frame discussions and analysis on youth engagement. I argue that the current conceptualization of participatory politics is limited when applied to colonial and occupation contexts, particular because political participation is premised on the recognition of citizens. I argue that this conceptualization of participatory politics needs to be extended, by taking into consideration the politics of refusal and revolutionary violence. I offer the concept of an anti-colonial participatory politics that considers these aspects as central to politics and political participation by analysing youth testimonies, video's and films produced by B'Tselem volunteers, Youth Against the Settlements and Emad Burnat (director of 5 Broken Cameras). I demonstrate how Palestinians are not merely reduced to bare life, but underscore how they actively resist their colonization. Additionally, drawing on Willis' (1990) notion of symbolic creativity, I suggest that through the symbolic work of shooting back (filming and video production) in their everyday lives, Palestinian youth enact public pedagogy, whereby cultural production becomes a site of teaching, learning and conscientization which could open up possibilities for social change."]
['Edmondston, Joanne Elisabeth; Dawson, Vaille & Schibeci, Renato', 'Undergraduate Biotechnology Students\xe2\x80\x99 Views of Science Communication', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09500690903514598', 'Despite rapid growth of the biotechnology industry worldwide, a number of public concerns about the application of biotechnology and its regulation remain. In response to these concerns, greater emphasis has been placed on promoting biotechnologists? public engagement. As tertiary science degree programmes form the foundation of the biotechnology sector by providing a pipeline of university graduates entering into the profession, it has been proposed that formal science communication training be introduced at this early stage of career development. The aim of the present study was to examine the views of biotechnology students towards science communication and science communication training. Using an Australian biotechnology degree programme as a case study, 69 undergraduates from all three years of the programme were administered a questionnaire that asked them to rank the importance of 12 components of a biotechnology curriculum, including two science communication items. The results were compared to the responses of 274 students enrolled in other science programmes. Additional questions were provided to the second year biotechnology undergraduates and semi?structured interviews were undertaken with 13 of these students to further examine their views of this area. The results of this study suggest that the biotechnology students surveyed do not value communication with non?scientists nor science communication training. The implications of these findings for the reform of undergraduate biotechnology courses yet to integrate science communication training into their science curriculum are discussed. Despite rapid growth of the biotechnology industry worldwide, a number of public concerns about the application of biotechnology and its regulation remain. In response to these concerns, greater emphasis has been placed on promoting biotechnologists? public engagement. As tertiary science degree programmes form the foundation of the biotechnology sector by providing a pipeline of university graduates entering into the profession, it has been proposed that formal science communication training be introduced at this early stage of career development. The aim of the present study was to examine the views of biotechnology students towards science communication and science communication training. Using an Australian biotechnology degree programme as a case study, 69 undergraduates from all three years of the programme were administered a questionnaire that asked them to rank the importance of 12 components of a biotechnology curriculum, including two science communication items. The results were compared to the responses of 274 students enrolled in other science programmes. Additional questions were provided to the second year biotechnology undergraduates and semi?structured interviews were undertaken with 13 of these students to further examine their views of this area. The results of this study suggest that the biotechnology students surveyed do not value communication with non?scientists nor science communication training. The implications of these findings for the reform of undergraduate biotechnology courses yet to integrate science communication training into their science curriculum are discussed.']
['EYRE, NICK', 'Policing carbon: design and enforcement options for personal carbon trading', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.3763/cpol.2009.0010', 'Different approaches have been suggested for extending the reach of carbon trading into the whole economy by including the emissions resulting from individual consumption of energy. The most radical suggestions involve granting emissions rights to individuals?known as ?personal carbon trading? (PCT). A taxonomy is provided of various proposed design options along with consideration of the previously neglected issue of who surrenders the emissions rights and how this is enforced. PCT relies on an enforcement system in which the penalty level determines the price at which constrained actors will breach the cap. Breaching the cap may require a ?safety valve? option to cap carbon prices at politically acceptable levels. This could weaken the argument that PCT guarantees certainty of the environmental outcome. Enforcement is examined for three sets of actors: primary fuel suppliers (upstream), suppliers of final energy (midstream), and the final users themselves (downstream). The choice leads to very different consequences for the design and political economy of the resulting carbon markets. Although upstream enforcement is relatively straightforward, it would not lead to the strong involvement of individuals in carbon markets. Midstream enforcement could encourage more citizen engagement, but cannot guarantee it. Downstream enforcement through end-users would be administratively complex and is politically unlikely. Different approaches have been suggested for extending the reach of carbon trading into the whole economy by including the emissions resulting from individual consumption of energy. The most radical suggestions involve granting emissions rights to individuals?known as ?personal carbon trading? (PCT). A taxonomy is provided of various proposed design options along with consideration of the previously neglected issue of who surrenders the emissions rights and how this is enforced. PCT relies on an enforcement system in which the penalty level determines the price at which constrained actors will breach the cap. Breaching the cap may require a ?safety valve? option to cap carbon prices at politically acceptable levels. This could weaken the argument that PCT guarantees certainty of the environmental outcome. Enforcement is examined for three sets of actors: primary fuel suppliers (upstream), suppliers of final energy (midstream), and the final users themselves (downstream). The choice leads to very different consequences for the design and political economy of the resulting carbon markets. Although upstream enforcement is relatively straightforward, it would not lead to the strong involvement of individuals in carbon markets. Midstream enforcement could encourage more citizen engagement, but cannot guarantee it. Downstream enforcement through end-users would be administratively complex and is politically unlikely.']
['Fina, Brooke; Wright, Edward C.; Lichner, Tracey K.; Borah, Adam & Foa, Edna B.', 'Common Challenges in Conducting Prolonged Exposure Therapy With Active Duty Service Members: Case Discussion and Strategies for Intervention', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15332985.2014.903885', 'Prolonged Exposure (PE) Therapy receives most of its empirical support from trials conducted with civilian posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) populations. There has been only limited research on its use with military personnel with combat-related PTSD, and as a consequence, there has been less clinical discussion detailing its application with active duty service members. The purpose of this paper is to highlight two challenges that commonly arise when conducting PE with active duty service members: 1) selecting the most appropriate index event to focus on in imaginal exposure out of the numerous traumas an active duty patient is likely to have experienced, and 2) patients? tendency to engage in ?safety behaviors,? which undermine the effectiveness of in vivo exposure. The nature of these challenges is explored from a theoretical perspective, along with two case examples to illustrate their presentation in treatment. Specific strategies for addressing them are reviewed. Prolonged Exposure (PE) Therapy receives most of its empirical support from trials conducted with civilian posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) populations. There has been only limited research on its use with military personnel with combat-related PTSD, and as a consequence, there has been less clinical discussion detailing its application with active duty service members. The purpose of this paper is to highlight two challenges that commonly arise when conducting PE with active duty service members: 1) selecting the most appropriate index event to focus on in imaginal exposure out of the numerous traumas an active duty patient is likely to have experienced, and 2) patients? tendency to engage in ?safety behaviors,? which undermine the effectiveness of in vivo exposure. The nature of these challenges is explored from a theoretical perspective, along with two case examples to illustrate their presentation in treatment. Specific strategies for addressing them are reviewed.']
['Fransen, Hetty; Pollard, Nick; Kantartzis, Sarah & Viana-Moldes, In\xc3\xa9s', 'Participatory citizenship: Critical perspectives on client-centred occupational therapy', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.3109/11038128.2015.1020338', 'AbstractBackground/aims: This article aims to discuss client-centred practice, the current dominant approach within occupational therapy, in relation to participatory citizenship. Occupational therapists work within structures and policies that set boundaries on their engagement with clients, while working with complex, multidimensional social realities. Methods: The authors present a critical discussion shaped by their research, including a survey, discussions at workshops at international conferences, and critical engagement with the literature on occupational therapy, occupation, and citizenship. Conclusion: A focus on citizenship suggests reframing professional development based on the participation in public life of people as citizens of their society. While occupational therapists often refer to clients in the context of communities, groups, families, and wider society, the term client-centred practice typically represents a particular view of the individual and may sometimes be too limited in application for a more systemic and societal approach. Significance: The authors question the individual focus which has, until recently, been typical of client-centred occupational therapy. Placing citizenship at the core of intervention is a transformative process that assumes all people are citizens and conceives of health as a collective issue, influencing the way we educate, do research, and practise. AbstractBackground/aims: This article aims to discuss client-centred practice, the current dominant approach within occupational therapy, in relation to participatory citizenship. Occupational therapists work within structures and policies that set boundaries on their engagement with clients, while working with complex, multidimensional social realities. Methods: The authors present a critical discussion shaped by their research, including a survey, discussions at workshops at international conferences, and critical engagement with the literature on occupational therapy, occupation, and citizenship. Conclusion: A focus on citizenship suggests reframing professional development based on the participation in public life of people as citizens of their society. While occupational therapists often refer to clients in the context of communities, groups, families, and wider society, the term client-centred practice typically represents a particular view of the individual and may sometimes be too limited in application for a more systemic and societal approach. Significance: The authors question the individual focus which has, until recently, been typical of client-centred occupational therapy. Placing citizenship at the core of intervention is a transformative process that assumes all people are citizens and conceives of health as a collective issue, influencing the way we educate, do research, and practise.']
['Garma, Romana & Bove, Liliana L.', 'Contributing to well-being: customer citizenship behaviors directed to service personnel', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/0965254X.2011.599495', "The well-being of service personnel is an important issue to businesses given the crucial role they play as the interface between customers and the organization. Various life events and positive interaction with others contribute to an individual's level of well-being. This research focuses on helpful, discretionary behaviors of customers directed to service personnel. Open-ended elicitation procedures with hospitality and retail service personnel identified six categories of customer citizenship behaviors directed to service personnel that were perceived as helpful and not expected for successful service delivery. These were: assumed employee behavior; advocacy; consultancy; sportsmanship; social support and courtesy. Applying Social Production Function (SPF) theory our findings suggest that customer citizenship behaviors may assist service personnel to attain the instrumental goals of: comfort; stimulation; status; behavioral confirmation; and affection and thus subjective well-being. The well-being of service personnel is an important issue to businesses given the crucial role they play as the interface between customers and the organization. Various life events and positive interaction with others contribute to an individual's level of well-being. This research focuses on helpful, discretionary behaviors of customers directed to service personnel. Open-ended elicitation procedures with hospitality and retail service personnel identified six categories of customer citizenship behaviors directed to service personnel that were perceived as helpful and not expected for successful service delivery. These were: assumed employee behavior; advocacy; consultancy; sportsmanship; social support and courtesy. Applying Social Production Function (SPF) theory our findings suggest that customer citizenship behaviors may assist service personnel to attain the instrumental goals of: comfort; stimulation; status; behavioral confirmation; and affection and thus subjective well-being."]
['Gouthro, Patricia A.', 'Who gets to be a writer? Exploring identity and learning issues in becoming a fiction author', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/0158037X.2014.904777', 'Drawing upon a research study on lifelong learning, citizenship, and fiction writing, this paper explores issues around identity and learning in becoming a fiction author. Five main thematic areas are discussed: (1) envisioning a writing career, (2) compelled to write, (3) learning the craft, (4) getting published, and (5) online identity. The challenges, hurdles, and motivational factors in pursuing a career in a field as tenuous as fiction writing are explored. The paper argues that fiction writers, like many people who work in the creative sector, have a strong desire to engage in work that they consider to be meaningful. Those who succeed demonstrate great perseverance. As the impact of new technologies and social media shape and change the publishing sector, there are new challenges as well as opportunities that writers will need to learn about and address as they develop their career trajectories. Drawing upon a research study on lifelong learning, citizenship, and fiction writing, this paper explores issues around identity and learning in becoming a fiction author. Five main thematic areas are discussed: (1) envisioning a writing career, (2) compelled to write, (3) learning the craft, (4) getting published, and (5) online identity. The challenges, hurdles, and motivational factors in pursuing a career in a field as tenuous as fiction writing are explored. The paper argues that fiction writers, like many people who work in the creative sector, have a strong desire to engage in work that they consider to be meaningful. Those who succeed demonstrate great perseverance. As the impact of new technologies and social media shape and change the publishing sector, there are new challenges as well as opportunities that writers will need to learn about and address as they develop their career trajectories.']
['Hampton, Keith N. & Ling, Richard', 'EXPLAINING COMMUNICATION DISPLACEMENT AND LARGE-SCALE SOCIAL CHANGE IN CORE NETWORKS', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2013.777760', "Decline in the size and diversity of American's core networks has been tied to the displacement of face-to-face interaction and to lower societal well-being. Comparing core networks in the United States, Norway, and Ukraine, we reject the conclusions that frequent in-person contact predicts individual well-being and that large/diverse networks predict broader societal well-being. Individuals of lower socioeconomic status (SES) and societies with lower levels of overall prosperity have higher rates of in-person contact. Internet use is associated with higher in-person contact for the socioeconomically advantaged but lower rates of in-person contact for the disadvantaged. In-person and ICT-based contact is generally associated with maintaining a larger network, but in societies of lower well-being frequent interaction impedes the ability to maintain a large network. In contrast to the positive relationship between individual SES and network size, societal prosperity has a negative relationship to network size. Findings are discussed in relation to social support, democratic engagement, and the digital divide. Decline in the size and diversity of American's core networks has been tied to the displacement of face-to-face interaction and to lower societal well-being. Comparing core networks in the United States, Norway, and Ukraine, we reject the conclusions that frequent in-person contact predicts individual well-being and that large/diverse networks predict broader societal well-being. Individuals of lower socioeconomic status (SES) and societies with lower levels of overall prosperity have higher rates of in-person contact. Internet use is associated with higher in-person contact for the socioeconomically advantaged but lower rates of in-person contact for the disadvantaged. In-person and ICT-based contact is generally associated with maintaining a larger network, but in societies of lower well-being frequent interaction impedes the ability to maintain a large network. In contrast to the positive relationship between individual SES and network size, societal prosperity has a negative relationship to network size. Findings are discussed in relation to social support, democratic engagement, and the digital divide."]
['Hardina, Donna', 'The Use of Dialogue in Community Organization Practice: Using Theory, Values, and Skills to Guide Group Decision-Making', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10705422.2014.929060', 'The ability to engage diverse community participants in group dialogue to resolve differences, establish common ground, identify problems, set goals, and plan actions is an essential part of community organization. However, there are limited resources in the social work literature about how social work skills can best be used to facilitate group dialogue in this context. In this article, the theories and values associated with the use of group dialogue are discussed. The manner in which these skills are applied in community organizing is described. The interpersonal skills needed for facilitating group dialogue in community organization practice are also examined. The ability to engage diverse community participants in group dialogue to resolve differences, establish common ground, identify problems, set goals, and plan actions is an essential part of community organization. However, there are limited resources in the social work literature about how social work skills can best be used to facilitate group dialogue in this context. In this article, the theories and values associated with the use of group dialogue are discussed. The manner in which these skills are applied in community organizing is described. The interpersonal skills needed for facilitating group dialogue in community organization practice are also examined.']
['Harrington, Stephen', "Top Gear, top journalism: Three lessons for political journalists from the world's most popular TV show", 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/10304312.2010.510594', "This article examines the BBC program Top Gear, discussing why it has become one of the world's most-watched TV programs, and how it has very successfully captivated an audience who might otherwise not be particularly interested in cars. The analysis of the show is here framed in the form of three ?lessons? for journalists, suggesting that some of the entertaining (and highly engaging) ways in which Top Gear presents information to its viewers could be usefully applied in the coverage of politics ? a domain of knowledge which, like cars, many citizens find abstract or boring. It's not hyperbole to suggest that when Jeremy [Clarkson] first appeared on old-style Top Gear, his style changed the face of modern motoring journalism. He did this by realizing that people were less interested in being told about a car's valve timing, compression ratios and tyre sizes than they were in knowing (a) whether said car would improve their general quality of life and (b) whether being seen driving one would make attractive people want to sleep with them. When Top Gear returned in 2002, the show took this philosophy, added rocket-boosters and ran with it. The rest, as they say, is history. British Broadcasting Corporation n.d. This article examines the BBC program Top Gear, discussing why it has become one of the world's most-watched TV programs, and how it has very successfully captivated an audience who might otherwise not be particularly interested in cars. The analysis of the show is here framed in the form of three ?lessons? for journalists, suggesting that some of the entertaining (and highly engaging) ways in which Top Gear presents information to its viewers could be usefully applied in the coverage of politics ? a domain of knowledge which, like cars, many citizens find abstract or boring. It's not hyperbole to suggest that when Jeremy [Clarkson] first appeared on old-style Top Gear, his style changed the face of modern motoring journalism. He did this by realizing that people were less interested in being told about a car's valve timing, compression ratios and tyre sizes than they were in knowing (a) whether said car would improve their general quality of life and (b) whether being seen driving one would make attractive people want to sleep with them. When Top Gear returned in 2002, the show took this philosophy, added rocket-boosters and ran with it. The rest, as they say, is history. British Broadcasting Corporation n.d."]
['Henderson, Joan C.', 'Hosting the 2022 FIFA World Cup: opportunities and challenges for Qatar', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/14775085.2015.1133316', "The paper is concerned with the role of sports events and their significance for tourism. It presents an empirical case study of the Gulf State of Qatar and its hosting of the 2022 football World Cup. Such sports events are recognised as a tourism resource with the power to attract large numbers of visitors and enhance destination image thereby justifying a place in tourism development and economic diversification strategies. They serve additional purposes related to national branding and foreign relations as Qatar is actively seeking greater engagement with the international community. The country is investing heavily in its sports infrastructure, events programme and tourism in pursuit of favourable returns including social benefits for citizens. Success is not guaranteed and there may be undesirable outcomes from event hosting. The distinctive qualities of the place and prevailing conditions shape official motivations and give rise to opportunities, but also challenges in implementing ambitious plans and achieving objectives. Insights are thus afforded into the underlying agendas, practice and repercussions of sports events tourism as their reach is extended into the Middle East through Qatar's preparations for the 2022 Federation Internationale de Football Association World Cup. The paper is concerned with the role of sports events and their significance for tourism. It presents an empirical case study of the Gulf State of Qatar and its hosting of the 2022 football World Cup. Such sports events are recognised as a tourism resource with the power to attract large numbers of visitors and enhance destination image thereby justifying a place in tourism development and economic diversification strategies. They serve additional purposes related to national branding and foreign relations as Qatar is actively seeking greater engagement with the international community. The country is investing heavily in its sports infrastructure, events programme and tourism in pursuit of favourable returns including social benefits for citizens. Success is not guaranteed and there may be undesirable outcomes from event hosting. The distinctive qualities of the place and prevailing conditions shape official motivations and give rise to opportunities, but also challenges in implementing ambitious plans and achieving objectives. Insights are thus afforded into the underlying agendas, practice and repercussions of sports events tourism as their reach is extended into the Middle East through Qatar's preparations for the 2022 Federation Internationale de Football Association World Cup."]
['Johnson, Amanda J.; Glover, Troy D. & Yuen, Felice C.', 'Supporting effective community representation: Lessons from the Festival of Neighbourhoods', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13606710802551155', "Increasing emphasis has been placed on involving community members in the decision making and program implementation process. To reach community members and encourage participation, planners and public officials rely on involvement from key community representatives. These individuals are often critical to the success of partnerships and act as liaisons between public officials and neighbourhood residents. The purpose of this paper was to examine the role of community representatives in a successful urban regeneration project called the Festival of Neighbourhoods (FON) in Kitchener, Ontario, through which a number of leisure-related projects have been funded. Two major themes were identified that focussed on the role of community representatives. First, relationship with the City, centred on community representatives' perceptions of the City's willingness to remain flexible and open to decisions. Second, relationship with the neighbourhood, focussed on the role of community representatives to build a relationship with neighbourhood residents to encourage involvement and create a sense of commitment to the FON. Increasing emphasis has been placed on involving community members in the decision making and program implementation process. To reach community members and encourage participation, planners and public officials rely on involvement from key community representatives. These individuals are often critical to the success of partnerships and act as liaisons between public officials and neighbourhood residents. The purpose of this paper was to examine the role of community representatives in a successful urban regeneration project called the Festival of Neighbourhoods (FON) in Kitchener, Ontario, through which a number of leisure-related projects have been funded. Two major themes were identified that focussed on the role of community representatives. First, relationship with the City, centred on community representatives' perceptions of the City's willingness to remain flexible and open to decisions. Second, relationship with the neighbourhood, focussed on the role of community representatives to build a relationship with neighbourhood residents to encourage involvement and create a sense of commitment to the FON."]
['Marres, Noortje & Lezaun, Javier', 'Materials and devices of the public: an introduction', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03085147.2011.602293', 'Abstract This introduction provides an overview of material- or device-centred approaches to the study of public participation, and articulates the theoretical contributions of the four papers that make up this special section. Set against the background of post-Foucauldian perspectives on the material dimensions of citizenship and engagement ? perspectives that treat matter as a tacit, constituting force in the organization of collectives and are predominantly concerned with the fabrication of political subjects ? we outline an approach that considers material engagement as a distinct mode of performing the public. The question, then, is how objects, devices, settings and materials acquire explicit political capacities, and how they serve to enact material participation as a specific public form. We discuss the connections between social studies of material participation and political theory, and define the contours of an empiricist approach to material publics, one that takes as its central cue that the values and criteria particular to these publics emerge as part of the process of their organization. Finally, we discuss four themes that connect the papers in this special section, namely their focus on (1) mundane technologies, (2) experimental devices and settings for material participation, (3) the dynamic of effort and comfort, and (4) the modes of containment and proliferation that characterize material publics. Abstract This introduction provides an overview of material- or device-centred approaches to the study of public participation, and articulates the theoretical contributions of the four papers that make up this special section. Set against the background of post-Foucauldian perspectives on the material dimensions of citizenship and engagement ? perspectives that treat matter as a tacit, constituting force in the organization of collectives and are predominantly concerned with the fabrication of political subjects ? we outline an approach that considers material engagement as a distinct mode of performing the public. The question, then, is how objects, devices, settings and materials acquire explicit political capacities, and how they serve to enact material participation as a specific public form. We discuss the connections between social studies of material participation and political theory, and define the contours of an empiricist approach to material publics, one that takes as its central cue that the values and criteria particular to these publics emerge as part of the process of their organization. Finally, we discuss four themes that connect the papers in this special section, namely their focus on (1) mundane technologies, (2) experimental devices and settings for material participation, (3) the dynamic of effort and comfort, and (4) the modes of containment and proliferation that characterize material publics.']
['Matthews, Peter; Bramley, Glen & Hastings, Annette', 'Homo Economicus in a Big Society: Understanding Middle-class Activism and NIMBYism towards New Housing Developments', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14036096.2014.947173', 'AbstractProblems of housing supply and affordability in England have long been recognized by policy-makers. A key barrier to supply is seen to be community activism by so-called not-in-my-back-yard activists (NIMBYs). The localism policy agenda, or devolving decision-making down to the local level, is central to how the UK coalition government seek to overcome this opposition. This conceives NIMBYism as a demonstration of homo economicus ? of the rationality of economic beings seeking to maximize their utility. In this view, residents would not accept large urban extensions in suburban areas because they took on localized costs with no obvious benefits, unless incentivised appropriately. In this paper, we use analysis of British Social Attitudes Survey data as well as the results of the first review of middle-class activism in relation to public services to identify the likelihood of residents being incentivized by this version of localism to accept new housing. We conclude that the evidence on the individual and collective attitudes suggests that it is unlikely that localism will deliver new housing. Importantly, the political power of affluent and professional groups means they can ensure that their opposition is heard, particularly in the neighbourhood plans delivered through localism. The paper argues that planning for housing needs to understand communities as homo democraticus ? as actively engaged in negotiating between complex interests with respect to support for new housing. AbstractProblems of housing supply and affordability in England have long been recognized by policy-makers. A key barrier to supply is seen to be community activism by so-called not-in-my-back-yard activists (NIMBYs). The localism policy agenda, or devolving decision-making down to the local level, is central to how the UK coalition government seek to overcome this opposition. This conceives NIMBYism as a demonstration of homo economicus ? of the rationality of economic beings seeking to maximize their utility. In this view, residents would not accept large urban extensions in suburban areas because they took on localized costs with no obvious benefits, unless incentivised appropriately. In this paper, we use analysis of British Social Attitudes Survey data as well as the results of the first review of middle-class activism in relation to public services to identify the likelihood of residents being incentivized by this version of localism to accept new housing. We conclude that the evidence on the individual and collective attitudes suggests that it is unlikely that localism will deliver new housing. Importantly, the political power of affluent and professional groups means they can ensure that their opposition is heard, particularly in the neighbourhood plans delivered through localism. The paper argues that planning for housing needs to understand communities as homo democraticus ? as actively engaged in negotiating between complex interests with respect to support for new housing.']
['Mincu, Monica', 'Balancing citizenship and interculturalism: a comparison of two European contexts of inclusion', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14675986.2013.864872', 'The premise of this article is that unbalanced versions of inclusion politics are usually at work in European contexts. Some inclusion patterns may be more relevant for certain aspects or levels of the education system or various models may be applied to specific ethnic groups. A necessary balancing approach is discussed in this article, drawing on examples from Italy and Romania. In this article, I will engage with the profile of the inclusion politics of education in two European contexts, at different levels and regarding various arenas: nationally relevant policy documents issued by the Ministries of Education in both countries, consolidated configurations of school practices and specific provisions, the profile of the inclusion message as presented in some school textbooks and teachers? guides. I will argue that at national policy level, both countries are difference recognition oriented, although for different rationales and following different patterns. At a lower level, a plurality of unbalanced and differently focused versions of inclusion politics inside national contexts, frequently as one-dimensional provisions, may be noticed. Yet, a more ?balanced? policy may still not be sufficient in itself. It may be, in fact, a matter of specific solutions as correcting the status quo in particular contexts and of multidimensional as substantial multicultural education to be taken on seriously in practice. The premise of this article is that unbalanced versions of inclusion politics are usually at work in European contexts. Some inclusion patterns may be more relevant for certain aspects or levels of the education system or various models may be applied to specific ethnic groups. A necessary balancing approach is discussed in this article, drawing on examples from Italy and Romania. In this article, I will engage with the profile of the inclusion politics of education in two European contexts, at different levels and regarding various arenas: nationally relevant policy documents issued by the Ministries of Education in both countries, consolidated configurations of school practices and specific provisions, the profile of the inclusion message as presented in some school textbooks and teachers? guides. I will argue that at national policy level, both countries are difference recognition oriented, although for different rationales and following different patterns. At a lower level, a plurality of unbalanced and differently focused versions of inclusion politics inside national contexts, frequently as one-dimensional provisions, may be noticed. Yet, a more ?balanced? policy may still not be sufficient in itself. It may be, in fact, a matter of specific solutions as correcting the status quo in particular contexts and of multidimensional as substantial multicultural education to be taken on seriously in practice.']
['Mokhtar Azizi, Nurul Sakina; Wilkinson, Suzanne & Fassman, Elizabeth', 'Management practice to achieve energy-efficient performance of green buildings in New Zealand', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17452007.2013.837245', "The number of green buildings in New Zealand is increasing. One of the main drivers for this increase is the intention to reduce energy consumption. Locally relevant planning and management tools for ?green buildings? at operational level are required. Constructing green buildings does not ensure energy-efficient performance. Facilities' management plays an important role in achieving energy-efficient performance. Energy-management strategies have been identified from the literature and tested against current practice. These strategies are tested using case studies to examine the extent to which facilities' management implement energy-efficient measures. Results show green technologies that were inefficient during the operational phase and found that measures to engage occupants in energy conservation goal vary in effectiveness. The number of green buildings in New Zealand is increasing. One of the main drivers for this increase is the intention to reduce energy consumption. Locally relevant planning and management tools for ?green buildings? at operational level are required. Constructing green buildings does not ensure energy-efficient performance. Facilities' management plays an important role in achieving energy-efficient performance. Energy-management strategies have been identified from the literature and tested against current practice. These strategies are tested using case studies to examine the extent to which facilities' management implement energy-efficient measures. Results show green technologies that were inefficient during the operational phase and found that measures to engage occupants in energy conservation goal vary in effectiveness."]
['Myers, Greg', 'Stance-taking and public discussion in blogs', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17405904.2010.511832', "Blogs, which can be written and read by anyone with a computer and an internet connection, would seem to expand the possibilities for engagement in public sphere debates. Indeed, blogs are full of the kind of vocabulary that suggests intense discussion. However, a closer look at the way this vocabulary is used in context suggests that the main concern of writers is self-presentation, positioning themselves in a crowded forum, in what has been called stance-taking. When writers mark their stances, for instance by saying I think, they enact different ways of signalling a relation to others, marking disagreement, enacting surprise, and ironicising previous contributions. All these moves are ways of presenting one's own contribution as distinctive, showing one's entitlement to a position. In this paper, I use concordance tools to identify strings that are very frequent in a corpus of blogs, relative to a general corpus of written texts, focus on those relatively frequent words that mark stance and analyse these markers in context. I argue that the prominence of stance-taking indicates the priority of individual positioning over collective and deliberative discussion. Blogs, which can be written and read by anyone with a computer and an internet connection, would seem to expand the possibilities for engagement in public sphere debates. Indeed, blogs are full of the kind of vocabulary that suggests intense discussion. However, a closer look at the way this vocabulary is used in context suggests that the main concern of writers is self-presentation, positioning themselves in a crowded forum, in what has been called stance-taking. When writers mark their stances, for instance by saying I think, they enact different ways of signalling a relation to others, marking disagreement, enacting surprise, and ironicising previous contributions. All these moves are ways of presenting one's own contribution as distinctive, showing one's entitlement to a position. In this paper, I use concordance tools to identify strings that are very frequent in a corpus of blogs, relative to a general corpus of written texts, focus on those relatively frequent words that mark stance and analyse these markers in context. I argue that the prominence of stance-taking indicates the priority of individual positioning over collective and deliberative discussion."]
['Ndlovu, Isaac', 'Ambivalence of representation: African crises, migration and citizenship in NoViolet Bulawayo\xe2\x80\x99s We Need New Names', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14725843.2015.1108838', "AbstractBulawayo's We Need New Names engages with underprivileged postcolonial cosmopolitans in its articulation of a vision that is essentially tragic. The novel compels us to contemplate how Africa has been and can be represented in order to get the attention of a hegemonic Western audience. My discussion also explores the ways in which Bulawayo negotiates some of the unstated ongoing imperatives of what has been called the age of superstar writers and commodification of literature which make an African writer acclaimed in the international arena. Bulawayo?s narrative allows the application of the notion that today literary criticism should focus on the structure and dynamics of a specific cultural mode or the cultural production process; in the case of Bulawayo, the migrant writer?s representation of Africa in the fraught late capitalist system skewed in favour of the West. AbstractBulawayo's We Need New Names engages with underprivileged postcolonial cosmopolitans in its articulation of a vision that is essentially tragic. The novel compels us to contemplate how Africa has been and can be represented in order to get the attention of a hegemonic Western audience. My discussion also explores the ways in which Bulawayo negotiates some of the unstated ongoing imperatives of what has been called the age of superstar writers and commodification of literature which make an African writer acclaimed in the international arena. Bulawayo?s narrative allows the application of the notion that today literary criticism should focus on the structure and dynamics of a specific cultural mode or the cultural production process; in the case of Bulawayo, the migrant writer?s representation of Africa in the fraught late capitalist system skewed in favour of the West."]
['Newman, Jane L.; Dantzler, John & Coleman, April N.', 'Science in Action: How Middle School Students Are Changing Their World Through STEM Service-Learning Projects', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00405841.2015.977661', "The purpose of Science in Action (SIA) was to examine the relationship between implementing quality science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) service-learning (SL) projects and the effect on students' academic engagement in middle school science, civic responsibility, and resilience to at-risk behaviors. The innovative project funded by the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) included 6,000+ middle school at-risk students (eligible for at least 50% free or reduced-cost lunch), 126 science teachers who integrated STEM problem-based SL pedagogy into science instruction to teach students to solve real problems in schools and communities. The project involved 20 schools and communities with assistance from 120 community partners. Participants completed pre- and post-SL surveys on academic engagement, civic responsibility, and resilience; qualitative data were collected from journals, interviews, focus groups, observations, and field notes. Results highlight exemplary SL projects that demonstrated increased student academic engagement and achievement for students living in high poverty areas with potential at-risk behavior. Implications for future research and educational practices are discussed. The purpose of Science in Action (SIA) was to examine the relationship between implementing quality science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) service-learning (SL) projects and the effect on students' academic engagement in middle school science, civic responsibility, and resilience to at-risk behaviors. The innovative project funded by the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) included 6,000+ middle school at-risk students (eligible for at least 50% free or reduced-cost lunch), 126 science teachers who integrated STEM problem-based SL pedagogy into science instruction to teach students to solve real problems in schools and communities. The project involved 20 schools and communities with assistance from 120 community partners. Participants completed pre- and post-SL surveys on academic engagement, civic responsibility, and resilience; qualitative data were collected from journals, interviews, focus groups, observations, and field notes. Results highlight exemplary SL projects that demonstrated increased student academic engagement and achievement for students living in high poverty areas with potential at-risk behavior. Implications for future research and educational practices are discussed."]
['Ngai, Ngan-pun; Cheung, Chau-kiu; Ngai, Steven Sek-yum & To, Siu-ming', 'Youth leadership training in Hong Kong: current developments and the way ahead', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02673843.2012.656192', 'This study explicates the intervention goals, domains and strategies of youth leadership training programmes in Hong Kong using data collected on the Internet. The results show that youth leadership training programmes in Hong Kong are designed and organised to achieve five goals: (1) helping young people to achieve positive development and cultivate their leadership potential, (2) enhancing the ability of young people to form interpersonal relationships and engage in team-building, (3) encouraging young people to participate in community affairs and social services, (4) fostering a national identity and a deeper understanding of the mother country and (5) equipping young people with an international outlook. These goals are achieved through five inter-related training domains, including the personal, interpersonal, community, national and international domains. The intervention strategies currently used in these programmes comprise experiential learning, adventure-based training, service learning, non-local exposure and project-based competition strategies. The characteristics of the leadership training programmes and their implications for the future development of policy and practice in Hong Kong are also discussed. This study explicates the intervention goals, domains and strategies of youth leadership training programmes in Hong Kong using data collected on the Internet. The results show that youth leadership training programmes in Hong Kong are designed and organised to achieve five goals: (1) helping young people to achieve positive development and cultivate their leadership potential, (2) enhancing the ability of young people to form interpersonal relationships and engage in team-building, (3) encouraging young people to participate in community affairs and social services, (4) fostering a national identity and a deeper understanding of the mother country and (5) equipping young people with an international outlook. These goals are achieved through five inter-related training domains, including the personal, interpersonal, community, national and international domains. The intervention strategies currently used in these programmes comprise experiential learning, adventure-based training, service learning, non-local exposure and project-based competition strategies. The characteristics of the leadership training programmes and their implications for the future development of policy and practice in Hong Kong are also discussed.']
['Nhamo, Godwell', 'REDD+ and the global climate policy negotiating regimes: Challenges and opportunities for Africa', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10220461.2011.622954', 'Prior to developments in Copenhagen in 2009 and Cancun in 2010, global climate policy negotiations seldom culminated in concrete decisions concerning ways in which Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD) could be linked to sustainable development and carbon markets in developing countries, such as those in some parts of Africa.That changed with the expansion of the REDD initiative, to REDD+. Key arguments in the discussions have concerned contested methodologies for measuring, reporting and verifying carbon stocks; ensuring adequate technology transfer; and rectifying the shortage of local experts to deal with REDD+. However, there has been no contestation on the fact that REDD+ creates financial value for carbon stored in forests, an aspect that would encourage developing countries to reduce emissions from deforestation and degradation of forested lands and to invest in low-carbon growth paths. This article sheds light on how REDD+ has developed in global climate negotiations and how African governments have and should engage with REDD+. The conclusion is that since the Bali Action Plan of 2007, there has been significant progress in creating enabling global architecture with regard to REDD+, and African governments should now grasp the opportunities offered by REDD+ while advocating for a fair, legally binding and ethical arrangement to engage over the forests which are so key to many of their economies. Prior to developments in Copenhagen in 2009 and Cancun in 2010, global climate policy negotiations seldom culminated in concrete decisions concerning ways in which Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD) could be linked to sustainable development and carbon markets in developing countries, such as those in some parts of Africa.That changed with the expansion of the REDD initiative, to REDD+. Key arguments in the discussions have concerned contested methodologies for measuring, reporting and verifying carbon stocks; ensuring adequate technology transfer; and rectifying the shortage of local experts to deal with REDD+. However, there has been no contestation on the fact that REDD+ creates financial value for carbon stored in forests, an aspect that would encourage developing countries to reduce emissions from deforestation and degradation of forested lands and to invest in low-carbon growth paths. This article sheds light on how REDD+ has developed in global climate negotiations and how African governments have and should engage with REDD+. The conclusion is that since the Bali Action Plan of 2007, there has been significant progress in creating enabling global architecture with regard to REDD+, and African governments should now grasp the opportunities offered by REDD+ while advocating for a fair, legally binding and ethical arrangement to engage over the forests which are so key to many of their economies.']
['Reedy, Justin', 'Paths to the Practices of Citizenship: Political Discussion and Socialization among Mexican-heritage Immigrants in the US', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17475759.2015.1053823', 'Building on research on immigrant political socialization and social connections in politics, I advance a theoretical model for how immigrants develop their sense of political discussion in a new nation. This model, the Social Contact Model of Immigrant Political Socialization, focuses on the influences coming from close-knit social groups and wider-ranging social networks. I apply the model through a qualitative study of Mexican-heritage immigrants in the US and the likely sources of socialization that influence their political discussion behavior. The findings provide some support for the theoretical model and suggest there are important differences between Latino immigrants and native-born Whites in how they learn to engage in political discussion. Building on research on immigrant political socialization and social connections in politics, I advance a theoretical model for how immigrants develop their sense of political discussion in a new nation. This model, the Social Contact Model of Immigrant Political Socialization, focuses on the influences coming from close-knit social groups and wider-ranging social networks. I apply the model through a qualitative study of Mexican-heritage immigrants in the US and the likely sources of socialization that influence their political discussion behavior. The findings provide some support for the theoretical model and suggest there are important differences between Latino immigrants and native-born Whites in how they learn to engage in political discussion.']
['Rogers, Elizabeth A.; Fine, Sarah; Handley, Margaret A.; Davis, Hodari; Kass, James & Schillinger, Dean', 'Development and Early Implementation of The Bigger Picture, a Youth-Targeted Public Health Literacy Campaign to Prevent Type 2 Diabetes', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10810730.2014.940476', 'The prevalence of type 2 diabetes is rapidly rising, especially among minority and low-income youth. There is an unmet need to engage youth in identifying solutions to reverse this trajectory. Social marketing campaigns and entertainment education are effective forms of health communication for engaging populations in health-promoting behaviors. Critical to curbing the epidemic is moving the diabetes conversation away from individual behavior alone and toward a socioecologic perspective using a public health literacy framework. The authors developed an academic-community partnership to develop, implement, and evaluate a type 2 diabetes prevention campaign targeting minority and low-income youth. The Bigger Picture campaign uses hard-hitting, youth-generated spoken-word messages around key environmental and social drivers of the type 2 diabetes epidemic. Campaign goals included promoting health capacity and civic engagement. This article focuses on the development and implementation of the campaign, including (a) rationale and theoretical underpinnings, (b) steps in campaign creation, (c) testing the campaign messaging, and (d) campaign dissemination and evaluation planning. A youth-created health communication campaign using a public health literacy framework with targeted, relevant, and compelling messaging appears to be a promising vehicle for reaching at-risk youth to increase knowledge of and attitudes about preventing type 2 diabetes, change social norms, and motivate participation in health-promoting initiatives. The prevalence of type 2 diabetes is rapidly rising, especially among minority and low-income youth. There is an unmet need to engage youth in identifying solutions to reverse this trajectory. Social marketing campaigns and entertainment education are effective forms of health communication for engaging populations in health-promoting behaviors. Critical to curbing the epidemic is moving the diabetes conversation away from individual behavior alone and toward a socioecologic perspective using a public health literacy framework. The authors developed an academic-community partnership to develop, implement, and evaluate a type 2 diabetes prevention campaign targeting minority and low-income youth. The Bigger Picture campaign uses hard-hitting, youth-generated spoken-word messages around key environmental and social drivers of the type 2 diabetes epidemic. Campaign goals included promoting health capacity and civic engagement. This article focuses on the development and implementation of the campaign, including (a) rationale and theoretical underpinnings, (b) steps in campaign creation, (c) testing the campaign messaging, and (d) campaign dissemination and evaluation planning. A youth-created health communication campaign using a public health literacy framework with targeted, relevant, and compelling messaging appears to be a promising vehicle for reaching at-risk youth to increase knowledge of and attitudes about preventing type 2 diabetes, change social norms, and motivate participation in health-promoting initiatives.']
['Roschelle, Jeremy; Bakia, Marianne; Toyama, Yukie & Patton, Charles', 'Eight Issues for Learning Scientists About Education and the Economy', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10508406.2011.528318', 'Linking research to a compelling societal interest can build financial commitments to research, bring increased attention to findings, and grow support for scaling up impacts. Among many compelling societal interests that learning scientists can cite?such as increasing the quality of life, preparing citizens to make decisions in a complex world, and enhancing social cohesion among a diverse population?economic competitiveness is a compelling societal interest that resonates broadly among stakeholders. Indeed, it is now somewhat common to introduce learning sciences research, as in the Cambridge Handbook of the Learning Sciences and the U.S. National Education Technology Plan, by citing economic rationales. Despite the utility of evoking a potential link between learning research and economic competitiveness in the minds of broader audiences, learning scientists engage in rather little critical discussion of whether such links are meaningful and empirically sound within their own programs of research. This article seeks both to problematize conventional wisdom about links between learning sciences research and economic growth and to suggest possible directions for future research aimed at discovering stronger links. Because the issues are complex, we do not reach firm conclusions. Rather, this article seeks to spark a discussion within the field. Linking research to a compelling societal interest can build financial commitments to research, bring increased attention to findings, and grow support for scaling up impacts. Among many compelling societal interests that learning scientists can cite?such as increasing the quality of life, preparing citizens to make decisions in a complex world, and enhancing social cohesion among a diverse population?economic competitiveness is a compelling societal interest that resonates broadly among stakeholders. Indeed, it is now somewhat common to introduce learning sciences research, as in the Cambridge Handbook of the Learning Sciences and the U.S. National Education Technology Plan, by citing economic rationales. Despite the utility of evoking a potential link between learning research and economic competitiveness in the minds of broader audiences, learning scientists engage in rather little critical discussion of whether such links are meaningful and empirically sound within their own programs of research. This article seeks both to problematize conventional wisdom about links between learning sciences research and economic growth and to suggest possible directions for future research aimed at discovering stronger links. Because the issues are complex, we do not reach firm conclusions. Rather, this article seeks to spark a discussion within the field.']
['Rubin, Aviad', 'Bifurcated loyalty and religious actors\xe2\x80\x99 behaviour in democratic politics: the case of post-1967 religious Zionism in Israel', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09637494.2014.887358', 'This paper deals with the political behaviour of religious groups in a democratic setting. In particular, it suggests an explanation as to why the same religious group might adopt very different modes of engagement with the state, over the same issues, at different times. The proposed framework combines two components: (1) a communitarian understanding of civil society; and (2) the concept of bifurcated loyalty which grasps the unique tension experienced by religious groups in democratic regimes, and its effect on their political behaviour. I go on to apply this framework in the case of religious Zionism in Israel. This case, which explores important events and trends in the history of the religious Zionist group in Israel, with special emphasis on the post-1967 era, nicely demonstrates the shifting strategies of engagement of this group with the state. The behaviour of this group ranged from constructive collaboration through participation in government to outright violent clashes with the state. Such dramatic changes expose the link between changing levels of bifurcated loyalty and political behaviour in response to changes in state policies towards religious actors and contents. The paper concludes with a brief discussion about the general applicability of such an approach to the study of religious groups in democratic politics and civil society. This paper deals with the political behaviour of religious groups in a democratic setting. In particular, it suggests an explanation as to why the same religious group might adopt very different modes of engagement with the state, over the same issues, at different times. The proposed framework combines two components: (1) a communitarian understanding of civil society; and (2) the concept of bifurcated loyalty which grasps the unique tension experienced by religious groups in democratic regimes, and its effect on their political behaviour. I go on to apply this framework in the case of religious Zionism in Israel. This case, which explores important events and trends in the history of the religious Zionist group in Israel, with special emphasis on the post-1967 era, nicely demonstrates the shifting strategies of engagement of this group with the state. The behaviour of this group ranged from constructive collaboration through participation in government to outright violent clashes with the state. Such dramatic changes expose the link between changing levels of bifurcated loyalty and political behaviour in response to changes in state policies towards religious actors and contents. The paper concludes with a brief discussion about the general applicability of such an approach to the study of religious groups in democratic politics and civil society.']
['Schelbe, Lisa; Petracchi, Helen E. & Weaver, Addie', 'Benefits and Challenges of Service-Learning in Baccalaureate Social Work Programs', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08841233.2014.954689', 'Service-learning is a pedagogical approach that integrates students? classroom instruction with community experience. This article discusses qualitative results from a national survey examining service-learning in Council on Social Work Education?accredited baccalaureate programs. Almost 80% of the 202 program respondents required service-learning. They reported that benefits of incorporating service-learning in the BSW curriculum include assisting students in building community connections, applying theory and skills, socializing to the social work profession, and increasing self-awareness and exposure to diverse populations. Cited challenges include securing agency sites, time, and logistics. Findings support existing research suggesting that service-learning may benefit social work undergraduate education. Service-learning is a pedagogical approach that integrates students? classroom instruction with community experience. This article discusses qualitative results from a national survey examining service-learning in Council on Social Work Education?accredited baccalaureate programs. Almost 80% of the 202 program respondents required service-learning. They reported that benefits of incorporating service-learning in the BSW curriculum include assisting students in building community connections, applying theory and skills, socializing to the social work profession, and increasing self-awareness and exposure to diverse populations. Cited challenges include securing agency sites, time, and logistics. Findings support existing research suggesting that service-learning may benefit social work undergraduate education.']
['Schmid, Hillel & Blit\xe2\x80\x90Cohen, Edith', 'University and Social Involvement at the Neighborhood Level: Implications for Social Work Education', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08841230903022035', "The article describes and evaluates an innovative experiment in education and training of social workers at an academic learning center, which was established by the Hebrew University's School of Social Work and Social Welfare in a neighborhood of Jerusalem. The project focused on strengthening the link between theory, research, and practice. Participants were exposed to advanced theories and macropractice seminars, and gained practical experience as well as tools and technologies for coping with the social problems faced by Jerusalem neighborhoods. In that process, they became aware of the difficulties involved in initiating programs and in establishing coalitions with neighborhood institutions, residents, and other constituencies. The article deals with the achievements of the learning center, as well as with the difficulties and dilemmas encountered in the effort to sustain collaboration between the university and the community. In addition, issues related to supervision of students specializing in community work and practice, and implications for social work education are presented and discussed. The article describes and evaluates an innovative experiment in education and training of social workers at an academic learning center, which was established by the Hebrew University's School of Social Work and Social Welfare in a neighborhood of Jerusalem. The project focused on strengthening the link between theory, research, and practice. Participants were exposed to advanced theories and macropractice seminars, and gained practical experience as well as tools and technologies for coping with the social problems faced by Jerusalem neighborhoods. In that process, they became aware of the difficulties involved in initiating programs and in establishing coalitions with neighborhood institutions, residents, and other constituencies. The article deals with the achievements of the learning center, as well as with the difficulties and dilemmas encountered in the effort to sustain collaboration between the university and the community. In addition, issues related to supervision of students specializing in community work and practice, and implications for social work education are presented and discussed."]
['Shreck, Brian & Vedlitz, Arnold', 'The Public and Its Climate: Exploring the Relationship Between Public Discourse and Opinion on Global Warming', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08941920.2015.1095380', 'ABSTRACTWe use original data from a national public opinion survey to analyze the relationships between citizens? engagement in public discourse on climate change and their beliefs about the existence of anthropogenic climate change and support for climate change-oriented policies. We find that engagement in discourse is positively associated with strong beliefs affirming the reality of climate change. We also find that engagement in public discourse is strongly associated with strength of opinion on both sides of the debate on climate change-oriented policy preferences, suggesting an association between public discourse and polarization. The results will be of interest to scholars of deliberative and discursive democracy and climate communication proponents who advocate for increased public discussion of the complex policy issues. ABSTRACTWe use original data from a national public opinion survey to analyze the relationships between citizens? engagement in public discourse on climate change and their beliefs about the existence of anthropogenic climate change and support for climate change-oriented policies. We find that engagement in discourse is positively associated with strong beliefs affirming the reality of climate change. We also find that engagement in public discourse is strongly associated with strength of opinion on both sides of the debate on climate change-oriented policy preferences, suggesting an association between public discourse and polarization. The results will be of interest to scholars of deliberative and discursive democracy and climate communication proponents who advocate for increased public discussion of the complex policy issues.']
['Sun, Wanning', 'Cultivating self-health subjects: Yangsheng and biocitizenship in urban China', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13621025.2015.1006176', "China's transformation from state-run socialism to market economy has resulted in the progressive privatization of a number of key areas, including public health. At the same time, research suggests that the privatization of public service has given accelerated the formation of self-governing subjects who will enrich and strengthen Chinese authoritarian rule. This is most vividly demonstrated in the tendency of Chinese consumers to engage in the practice of self-health, an integral dimension of the wide-spread yangsheng (life-nurturing) practice at the grassroots level. Engaging with the concept of biocitizenship, and combining critical analysis of media with ethnographic fieldwork, this paper examines a nationwide process of health literacy education through popular media and the ways in which this process shapes yangsheng as both discourse and practice. It also identifies a range of ethical positions adopted by individual citizens in response to yangsheng as a discourse, practice and industry. The discussion reveals that biological citizenship has indeed become a new and integral dimension of China's citizenship project in the twenty-first century. We learn that while there is indeed an unambiguously top-down process of making biocitizens, a certain level of biological citizenship ?from below? is also present, albeit with distinct Chinese characteristics. China's transformation from state-run socialism to market economy has resulted in the progressive privatization of a number of key areas, including public health. At the same time, research suggests that the privatization of public service has given accelerated the formation of self-governing subjects who will enrich and strengthen Chinese authoritarian rule. This is most vividly demonstrated in the tendency of Chinese consumers to engage in the practice of self-health, an integral dimension of the wide-spread yangsheng (life-nurturing) practice at the grassroots level. Engaging with the concept of biocitizenship, and combining critical analysis of media with ethnographic fieldwork, this paper examines a nationwide process of health literacy education through popular media and the ways in which this process shapes yangsheng as both discourse and practice. It also identifies a range of ethical positions adopted by individual citizens in response to yangsheng as a discourse, practice and industry. The discussion reveals that biological citizenship has indeed become a new and integral dimension of China's citizenship project in the twenty-first century. We learn that while there is indeed an unambiguously top-down process of making biocitizens, a certain level of biological citizenship ?from below? is also present, albeit with distinct Chinese characteristics."]
['Underwood, Charles; Parker, Leann & Stone, Lynda', 'Getting it together: relational habitus in the emergence of digital literacies', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17439884.2013.770403', "Digital literacies have fast become indispensable for productive engagement, competency, and citizenship in a rapidly changing world. After-school programs represent an important venue where many young people can develop a mastery of digital literacies, encompassing both the creative and responsible use of a broad range of new media. This paper discusses relational habitus (the configuration of self, tools, tasks, and others in a specific activity) in the development of digital literacies among youth in a network of after-school programs called University-Community Links (UC Links). A collaborative effort among university and local community partners throughout California, UC Links provides informal learning activities that enable underserved K-12 youth to develop their digital literacies. After presenting UC Links' approach to informal learning after school, we offer a cognitive ethnography, describing how a distinctive relational habitus configures the links among self, tools, tasks, and others in informal digital activities at one UC Links site in Sacramento, CA. We suggest how this relational habitus informs collaborative activities among university and K-12 students to provide a cognitive platform for an agentive engagement with various new media tools. Digital literacies have fast become indispensable for productive engagement, competency, and citizenship in a rapidly changing world. After-school programs represent an important venue where many young people can develop a mastery of digital literacies, encompassing both the creative and responsible use of a broad range of new media. This paper discusses relational habitus (the configuration of self, tools, tasks, and others in a specific activity) in the development of digital literacies among youth in a network of after-school programs called University-Community Links (UC Links). A collaborative effort among university and local community partners throughout California, UC Links provides informal learning activities that enable underserved K-12 youth to develop their digital literacies. After presenting UC Links' approach to informal learning after school, we offer a cognitive ethnography, describing how a distinctive relational habitus configures the links among self, tools, tasks, and others in informal digital activities at one UC Links site in Sacramento, CA. We suggest how this relational habitus informs collaborative activities among university and K-12 students to provide a cognitive platform for an agentive engagement with various new media tools."]
['Vromen, Ariadne; Loader, Brian D. & Xenos, Michael A.', 'Beyond lifestyle politics in a time of crisis?: comparing young peoples\xe2\x80\x99 issue agendas and views on inequality', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01442872.2015.1095283', "ABSTRACTContemporary research on young people and politics portrays their political engagement as: individualised not collectivist; issue-driven not ideology-driven and postmaterialist instead of materialist. This shift towards ?lifestyle politics? is assumed to be universal among young people, rather than shaped by traditional social cleavages and structures. This paper investigates these assumptions and asks whether young people's experience of national economic austerity and increasing material inequality shapes the everyday political issues they identify with, and how they understand inequality and the distribution of resources in their societies. The analysis is based on responses to an open-ended question on key political issues of importance, in surveys of representative samples of 1200 young people aged 16?29 in 3 countries: Australia, the UK and the USA. Afterwards, we conducted online discussion groups with 107 young people, in which they were asked to discuss changes in the nature of equality in their societies. The findings show that there is a complex interdependence between individualised, everyday understandings of economic change and an identity-based politics of equal rights. However, there are nuanced differences in understanding inequality, dependent on young people's national location and socioeconomic background. The implications these findings have for young people's future political engagement are discussed. ABSTRACTContemporary research on young people and politics portrays their political engagement as: individualised not collectivist; issue-driven not ideology-driven and postmaterialist instead of materialist. This shift towards ?lifestyle politics? is assumed to be universal among young people, rather than shaped by traditional social cleavages and structures. This paper investigates these assumptions and asks whether young people's experience of national economic austerity and increasing material inequality shapes the everyday political issues they identify with, and how they understand inequality and the distribution of resources in their societies. The analysis is based on responses to an open-ended question on key political issues of importance, in surveys of representative samples of 1200 young people aged 16?29 in 3 countries: Australia, the UK and the USA. Afterwards, we conducted online discussion groups with 107 young people, in which they were asked to discuss changes in the nature of equality in their societies. The findings show that there is a complex interdependence between individualised, everyday understandings of economic change and an identity-based politics of equal rights. However, there are nuanced differences in understanding inequality, dependent on young people's national location and socioeconomic background. The implications these findings have for young people's future political engagement are discussed."]
['Weber, Millicent', 'Conceptualizing audience experience at the literary festival', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10304312.2014.986058', "The literary festival has been variously claimed to perform communicative, educative and social functions: it engages the public in literary and political discussions, thereby encouraging participation in ?the Arts? and promoting associated civic benefits. The audience of the literary festival, however, is typically represented as a body of populist and popularizing consumers, uncritically engaging with the mass-culture produced and propagated in the festival setting. Researchers have begun to refute such claims, demonstrating that members of festival audiences exhibit a deep and critical engagement with literature; but beyond this demographic-based research, little work has been conducted capable of interrogating audience experience, or mapping the broader culture of festival attendance. The diversity of literary festivals' sizes, locations, histories and stated goals is complemented by the equally broad ranges of programmed events. These events ? and the festivals more broadly ? are at once literary, theatrical, political and contemporary. As such, conceptions of audience, reader and readership from book history, communication and media studies, and performance and theatre studies, can all contribute to an investigation of the experience of the literary festival audience. This research compares work from these areas of study with individuals' personal accounts of festival experiences extracted from online weblogs to begin to conceptualise the variety and complexity of audience experiences at the literary festival, and outline the rich potential for further study in this area. The literary festival has been variously claimed to perform communicative, educative and social functions: it engages the public in literary and political discussions, thereby encouraging participation in ?the Arts? and promoting associated civic benefits. The audience of the literary festival, however, is typically represented as a body of populist and popularizing consumers, uncritically engaging with the mass-culture produced and propagated in the festival setting. Researchers have begun to refute such claims, demonstrating that members of festival audiences exhibit a deep and critical engagement with literature; but beyond this demographic-based research, little work has been conducted capable of interrogating audience experience, or mapping the broader culture of festival attendance. The diversity of literary festivals' sizes, locations, histories and stated goals is complemented by the equally broad ranges of programmed events. These events ? and the festivals more broadly ? are at once literary, theatrical, political and contemporary. As such, conceptions of audience, reader and readership from book history, communication and media studies, and performance and theatre studies, can all contribute to an investigation of the experience of the literary festival audience. This research compares work from these areas of study with individuals' personal accounts of festival experiences extracted from online weblogs to begin to conceptualise the variety and complexity of audience experiences at the literary festival, and outline the rich potential for further study in this area."]
['Wilson, Erin K.', 'From Apathy to Action: Promoting Active Citizenship and Global Responsibility amongst Populations in the Global North', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13600821003626609', "Efforts to address social and global problems such as poverty, mass hunger and mass-atrocity crimes are hindered significantly by apathy and low levels of active civil and political engagement amongst populations in developed countries. Social change non-government organisations (NGOs), such as Oxfam Australia, Oxfam Hong Kong and M\xc3\xa9decins Sans Fronti\xc3\xa8res, have recently employed innovative, creative, experience-based strategies in their efforts to promote active citizenship and greater global responsibility amongst populations in the Global North. These techniques are based on two key assumptions: that experiences change attitudes and that changes in behaviour will follow changes in attitudes. Yet the effectiveness of these newer techniques and the accuracy of the assumptions on which they are based remain largely untested. This article explores these assumptions and discusses the innovative, creative techniques that they have generated in NGO public education efforts. The article examines the theoretical literature on the problem of apathy and on the use of creative techniques to overcome apathy. It further discusses the practical application of these techniques through an examination of Oxfam Australia's ?Refugee Realities? project. This discussion is based on preliminary evaluation research conducted by Oxfam Australia and the author's own experiences as an actor/volunteer on the project. The article suggests that creative, experience-based public education strategies are effective in challenging and confronting public attitudes towards issues of global injustice. Further research is needed, however, to determine whether these encounters result in long-term changes in attitudes and whether they contribute to moving individuals and communities from apathy to action. Efforts to address social and global problems such as poverty, mass hunger and mass-atrocity crimes are hindered significantly by apathy and low levels of active civil and political engagement amongst populations in developed countries. Social change non-government organisations (NGOs), such as Oxfam Australia, Oxfam Hong Kong and M\xc3\xa9decins Sans Fronti\xc3\xa8res, have recently employed innovative, creative, experience-based strategies in their efforts to promote active citizenship and greater global responsibility amongst populations in the Global North. These techniques are based on two key assumptions: that experiences change attitudes and that changes in behaviour will follow changes in attitudes. Yet the effectiveness of these newer techniques and the accuracy of the assumptions on which they are based remain largely untested. This article explores these assumptions and discusses the innovative, creative techniques that they have generated in NGO public education efforts. The article examines the theoretical literature on the problem of apathy and on the use of creative techniques to overcome apathy. It further discusses the practical application of these techniques through an examination of Oxfam Australia's ?Refugee Realities? project. This discussion is based on preliminary evaluation research conducted by Oxfam Australia and the author's own experiences as an actor/volunteer on the project. The article suggests that creative, experience-based public education strategies are effective in challenging and confronting public attitudes towards issues of global injustice. Further research is needed, however, to determine whether these encounters result in long-term changes in attitudes and whether they contribute to moving individuals and communities from apathy to action."]
['Wilson, Matthew W.', '\xe2\x80\x98Training the eye\xe2\x80\x99: formation of the geocoding subject', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14649365.2010.521856', 'From 2004 to 2007, a nonprofit organization in Seattle conducted over twenty-five street surveys in ten neighborhoods. Participants in these surveys collected geographic data about community ?deficits? and ?assets? using handheld devices, while walking around their local neighborhoods. These residents marked graffiti, litter, vacant buildings, and abandoned automobiles, as well as, ?friendly? business districts, appropriate building facades, and peopled sidewalks?all among their categories of interest, initially borrowed from a New York City foundation responsible for developing the handheld devices. Here, I analyze the geocoding protocol, ?Training the Eye?, that was created by the New York City foundation and was adapted by the Seattle nonprofit. This technology of citizen engagement in governmental practice enacts an embodied cartographic vision that is productive of liminal subjectivities. These practices of geocoding, of assessing place in space, are intensely bodily, both in their messy enactment of digitally-extended vision and in their data-based imaginings of bodies at the margins. I draw upon theories of the cartographic gaze to discuss how technologies of vision constitute particular urban imaginations and discuss how subjects are formed through the discourses and practices of geocoding. From 2004 to 2007, a nonprofit organization in Seattle conducted over twenty-five street surveys in ten neighborhoods. Participants in these surveys collected geographic data about community ?deficits? and ?assets? using handheld devices, while walking around their local neighborhoods. These residents marked graffiti, litter, vacant buildings, and abandoned automobiles, as well as, ?friendly? business districts, appropriate building facades, and peopled sidewalks?all among their categories of interest, initially borrowed from a New York City foundation responsible for developing the handheld devices. Here, I analyze the geocoding protocol, ?Training the Eye?, that was created by the New York City foundation and was adapted by the Seattle nonprofit. This technology of citizen engagement in governmental practice enacts an embodied cartographic vision that is productive of liminal subjectivities. These practices of geocoding, of assessing place in space, are intensely bodily, both in their messy enactment of digitally-extended vision and in their data-based imaginings of bodies at the margins. I draw upon theories of the cartographic gaze to discuss how technologies of vision constitute particular urban imaginations and discuss how subjects are formed through the discourses and practices of geocoding.']
['Wong, Catherine Mei Ling', 'Organisational risk perception and transformations in India\xe2\x80\x99s nuclear establishment', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13669877.2014.910697', 'The discourse on nuclear power and risk has shifted over the last few decades from security concerns emanating from nuclear weapons to threats to public safety in the event of industrial nuclear accidents. While the main focus of existing scholarship has been on public risk perceptions, comparatively little is known about organisational risk perceptions and the factors that influence organisations? willingness to accept the incalculable risks of nuclear power. This paper provides insights into how the nuclear establishment in India thinks about risk. Drawing on interviews with the senior management of nuclear organisations, the analysis shows that organisational risk perception is not merely a human construct or the outcome of simple technical cost-benefit rationalities. It is the result of interactions between material and ideational conditions of risk. These conditions are expressed through three core organisational narratives: (1) the growth imperative, (2) technological nationalism and (3) faith in systems and technology. While there is generally a strong consensus on these narratives within and among the nuclear organisations in India, the data also show that organisations are not homogenous entities. Instances of self-critique and reflexivity exist which could open new spaces for change towards a more inclusive organisational discourse on nuclear risk in India. The discourse on nuclear power and risk has shifted over the last few decades from security concerns emanating from nuclear weapons to threats to public safety in the event of industrial nuclear accidents. While the main focus of existing scholarship has been on public risk perceptions, comparatively little is known about organisational risk perceptions and the factors that influence organisations? willingness to accept the incalculable risks of nuclear power. This paper provides insights into how the nuclear establishment in India thinks about risk. Drawing on interviews with the senior management of nuclear organisations, the analysis shows that organisational risk perception is not merely a human construct or the outcome of simple technical cost-benefit rationalities. It is the result of interactions between material and ideational conditions of risk. These conditions are expressed through three core organisational narratives: (1) the growth imperative, (2) technological nationalism and (3) faith in systems and technology. While there is generally a strong consensus on these narratives within and among the nuclear organisations in India, the data also show that organisations are not homogenous entities. Instances of self-critique and reflexivity exist which could open new spaces for change towards a more inclusive organisational discourse on nuclear risk in India.']
['Akinbobola, Yemisi', 'Theorising the African digital public sphere: a West African odyssey', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/23743670.2015.1119489', "ABSTRACTThis theoretical discussion about the impact of information and communication technologies on journalistic practices and the digital public spheres in West Africa, asks two key questions: 1) To what extent does the ICT-enabled impact on journalism practice contribute to the rejuvenation of the public sphere in African societies, and 2) What are the methodological changes of investigating these contributions? Scholars have argued that advances in ICTs can be used to initiate alternative forms of news production and citizen engagement that would either augment the efforts of the mainstream news media in African countries or, if need be, bypass the challenges they face. This argument sits well within current debates about the use and impact of ICTs on news consumption, journalistic practices, and the expansion of the public sphere. As many African countries still aspire towards functioning and modern democratic structures, there is a clear need for further academic discussion on, and empirical research into, this technology-led transformation of journalism. The connection of these challenges with the emancipation of the public sphere is evident, and thus we arrive at the questions this article addresses by drawing on published literature of both theoretical and empirical contexts, as well as the author's observations and research. ABSTRACTThis theoretical discussion about the impact of information and communication technologies on journalistic practices and the digital public spheres in West Africa, asks two key questions: 1) To what extent does the ICT-enabled impact on journalism practice contribute to the rejuvenation of the public sphere in African societies, and 2) What are the methodological changes of investigating these contributions? Scholars have argued that advances in ICTs can be used to initiate alternative forms of news production and citizen engagement that would either augment the efforts of the mainstream news media in African countries or, if need be, bypass the challenges they face. This argument sits well within current debates about the use and impact of ICTs on news consumption, journalistic practices, and the expansion of the public sphere. As many African countries still aspire towards functioning and modern democratic structures, there is a clear need for further academic discussion on, and empirical research into, this technology-led transformation of journalism. The connection of these challenges with the emancipation of the public sphere is evident, and thus we arrive at the questions this article addresses by drawing on published literature of both theoretical and empirical contexts, as well as the author's observations and research."]
['Albe, Virginie & Pedretti, Erminia', "Introduction to the Special Issue on Courting Controversy: Socioscientific Issues and School Science and Technology/Introduction au num\xc3\xa9ro sp\xc3\xa9cial sur rechercher la controverse: les questions socio-scientifiques dans les cours de sciences et de technologie \xc3\xa0 l'\xc3\xa9cole", 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14926156.2013.847219', 'Abstract This Special Issue of the Canadian Journal of Science, Mathematics and Technology Education is aimed at extending the dialogue on socioscientific issues (SSIs) research, with an emphasis on the use of controversy in educational contexts. The emergence of research on SSIs can be understood in terms of: calls for renewal in science curriculum that set the stage for teaching scientific concepts and processes within a rich social, political, and ethical context; the development of a scientific and technical culture; a new alliance between science education and citizenship education; and increased interest in the use of argumentation in science education. Debates at the international level about deep changes in the modes of knowledge production; relationships across science, technology, society, and environment (STSE); and educational forms, contents, and aims have prompted the inclusion of issues and controversial topics in education. In our editorial we offer our thoughts on SSIs in school science and technology?in English (written by Erminia and Virginie) and in French (written by Virginie). Though the pieces were written independently emphasizing different aspects of SSIs, they also contain many overlapping ideas. We finish the editorial with a summary of the seven contributions to the Special Issue and hope that you enjoy the opportunity to engage with the arguments contained in the articles. Abstract This Special Issue of the Canadian Journal of Science, Mathematics and Technology Education is aimed at extending the dialogue on socioscientific issues (SSIs) research, with an emphasis on the use of controversy in educational contexts. The emergence of research on SSIs can be understood in terms of: calls for renewal in science curriculum that set the stage for teaching scientific concepts and processes within a rich social, political, and ethical context; the development of a scientific and technical culture; a new alliance between science education and citizenship education; and increased interest in the use of argumentation in science education. Debates at the international level about deep changes in the modes of knowledge production; relationships across science, technology, society, and environment (STSE); and educational forms, contents, and aims have prompted the inclusion of issues and controversial topics in education. In our editorial we offer our thoughts on SSIs in school science and technology?in English (written by Erminia and Virginie) and in French (written by Virginie). Though the pieces were written independently emphasizing different aspects of SSIs, they also contain many overlapping ideas. We finish the editorial with a summary of the seven contributions to the Special Issue and hope that you enjoy the opportunity to engage with the arguments contained in the articles.']
['Anselin, Luc & Williams, Sarah', 'Digital neighborhoods', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17549175.2015.1080752', 'With the advent of ?big data? there is an increased interest in using social media to describe city dynamics. This paper employs geo-located social media data to identify ?digital neighborhoods? ? those areas in the city where social media is used more often. Starting with geo-located Twitter and Foursquare data for the New York City region in 2014, we applied spatial clustering techniques to detect significant groupings or ?neighborhoods? where social media use is high or low. The results show that beyond the business districts, digital neighborhoods occur in communities undergoing shifting socio-demographics. Neighborhoods that are not digitally oriented tend to have higher proportion of minorities and lower incomes, highlighting a social?economic divide in how social media is used in the city. Understanding the differences in these neighborhoods can help city planners interested in generating economic development proposals, civic engagement strategies, and urban design ideas that target these areas. With the advent of ?big data? there is an increased interest in using social media to describe city dynamics. This paper employs geo-located social media data to identify ?digital neighborhoods? ? those areas in the city where social media is used more often. Starting with geo-located Twitter and Foursquare data for the New York City region in 2014, we applied spatial clustering techniques to detect significant groupings or ?neighborhoods? where social media use is high or low. The results show that beyond the business districts, digital neighborhoods occur in communities undergoing shifting socio-demographics. Neighborhoods that are not digitally oriented tend to have higher proportion of minorities and lower incomes, highlighting a social?economic divide in how social media is used in the city. Understanding the differences in these neighborhoods can help city planners interested in generating economic development proposals, civic engagement strategies, and urban design ideas that target these areas.']
['Bakardjieva, Maria', 'Mundane Citizenship: New Media and Civil Society in Bulgaria', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09668136.2012.712247', 'Abstract This essay examines the new forms of civic and political engagement that the increasing accessibility of internet-based media has precipitated in the Bulgarian context. It discusses the results of three case studies which focus respectively on online forum discussions of a significant political event; a campaign of eco-protests; and the activism emerging from a website and forum dedicated to motherhood. The essay argues that new media have brought civic and political issues and the possibility to deliberate and act on them into the everyday lives of Bulgarians. As a result, the voice of Bulgarian civil society has grown stronger and has been able to penetrate the sphere of formal politics, sometimes with important consequences. Abstract This essay examines the new forms of civic and political engagement that the increasing accessibility of internet-based media has precipitated in the Bulgarian context. It discusses the results of three case studies which focus respectively on online forum discussions of a significant political event; a campaign of eco-protests; and the activism emerging from a website and forum dedicated to motherhood. The essay argues that new media have brought civic and political issues and the possibility to deliberate and act on them into the everyday lives of Bulgarians. As a result, the voice of Bulgarian civil society has grown stronger and has been able to penetrate the sphere of formal politics, sometimes with important consequences.']
['Ball, William J.', 'Learning the Local Political Landscape with Geographic Information Systems (GIS)', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15512160903035633', 'The focus of the paper is on the transformative effect on student learning and engagement that results from using contemporary Geographic Information Systems (GIS) tools and directed reflection to engage in spatial learning about the politics (literally) surrounding the student. I report on the pedagogical advantages of using spatial analysis (especially embedded in GIS maps) and reflection to foster student engagement with, and learning of, the multidisciplinary foundations of local political conflicts. I present a community politics course that employs GIS (emphasizing goals and learning methods), discuss new developments in GIS tools that enable projects such as the one evaluated here, describe the neighborhood analysis project used in the course and present a detailed, multi-semester assessment of student projects that employs both qualitative data based on student reflections and a more quantitative review of their work. This paper provides a discussion and assessment of applying (GIS) technology to student self-awareness of, and engagement with, political issues in their own hometown. The focus of the paper is on the transformative effect on student learning and engagement that results from using contemporary Geographic Information Systems (GIS) tools and directed reflection to engage in spatial learning about the politics (literally) surrounding the student. I report on the pedagogical advantages of using spatial analysis (especially embedded in GIS maps) and reflection to foster student engagement with, and learning of, the multidisciplinary foundations of local political conflicts. I present a community politics course that employs GIS (emphasizing goals and learning methods), discuss new developments in GIS tools that enable projects such as the one evaluated here, describe the neighborhood analysis project used in the course and present a detailed, multi-semester assessment of student projects that employs both qualitative data based on student reflections and a more quantitative review of their work. This paper provides a discussion and assessment of applying (GIS) technology to student self-awareness of, and engagement with, political issues in their own hometown.']
['Becker, Amy B. & Copeland, Lauren', 'Networked publics: How connective social media use facilitates political consumerism among LGBT Americans', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19331681.2015.1131655', 'ABSTRACTWe test whether connective use of social media mobilizes individuals to engage in political consumerism. Analyzing data from a 2013 survey of LGBT adults (N\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01,197), we find that those who use social media for connective activities, (e.g., to meet new LGBT friends, discuss LGBT issues), are significantly more likely to engage in boycotts or buycotts to promote equality. We find significant interactions between connective social media use and political interest. Specifically, connective social media use mobilizes people with low levels of political interest to participate and reinforces the likelihood that people with high levels of political interest participate. ABSTRACTWe test whether connective use of social media mobilizes individuals to engage in political consumerism. Analyzing data from a 2013 survey of LGBT adults (N\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01,197), we find that those who use social media for connective activities, (e.g., to meet new LGBT friends, discuss LGBT issues), are significantly more likely to engage in boycotts or buycotts to promote equality. We find significant interactions between connective social media use and political interest. Specifically, connective social media use mobilizes people with low levels of political interest to participate and reinforces the likelihood that people with high levels of political interest participate.']
['Bell, Larry', 'Engaging the Public in Public Policy', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1179/msi.2009.4.1.21', 'AbstractThe author advocates for the unique ability of science museums to educate visitors in socio-science and technology issues that influence policy, and also discusses the potential pitfalls museums face if programs step beyond the foundational science of subjective social issues, or more hazardously, mingle with politics. He analyzes three approaches open to museums navigating these territories, with examples of their exploratory implementation at the Museum of Science, Boston, ultimately concluding that the museum field should explore all three areas in tandem with the social science community. These three approaches?1) providing social science context for science issues; 2) becoming forums for dialog and debate; and 3) providing mechanisms for public views to be shared with scientists and policy makers?differ from the individual-based informal education ideals with which Bell and many museum professionals began their careers, reflecting the increasingly global nature of citizenry that museums may help to nurture. AbstractThe author advocates for the unique ability of science museums to educate visitors in socio-science and technology issues that influence policy, and also discusses the potential pitfalls museums face if programs step beyond the foundational science of subjective social issues, or more hazardously, mingle with politics. He analyzes three approaches open to museums navigating these territories, with examples of their exploratory implementation at the Museum of Science, Boston, ultimately concluding that the museum field should explore all three areas in tandem with the social science community. These three approaches?1) providing social science context for science issues; 2) becoming forums for dialog and debate; and 3) providing mechanisms for public views to be shared with scientists and policy makers?differ from the individual-based informal education ideals with which Bell and many museum professionals began their careers, reflecting the increasingly global nature of citizenry that museums may help to nurture.']
['Caliendo, Stephen M.; Chod, Suzanne & Muck, William', 'Using Twitter to Increase Political Interest in Undergraduate Students', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/15512169.2015.1082476', 'ABSTRACTThis study examines the impact of using Twitter in the classroom on student political efficacy, interest, and engagement. Millennials use the virtual world to build social relationships and to obtain information. By envisioning the virtual world as a means to increase civic engagement, political science instructors can use technology to draw upon social networking, iterated interaction, and information sharing. Because taking political science and civics courses can boost civic engagement, students who are drawn to political science courses are more likely to already be interested in politics and have an increased knowledge. Therefore, what we demonstrate is that, while Twitter in and of itself does not independently foster civic engagement, employing it as a pedagogical tool taps into and strengthens the predispositions of students in political science classes, namely political interest and efficacy. Our results contribute to a fresh and much needed discussion in political science literature about ways to increase civic engagement of Millennials. ABSTRACTThis study examines the impact of using Twitter in the classroom on student political efficacy, interest, and engagement. Millennials use the virtual world to build social relationships and to obtain information. By envisioning the virtual world as a means to increase civic engagement, political science instructors can use technology to draw upon social networking, iterated interaction, and information sharing. Because taking political science and civics courses can boost civic engagement, students who are drawn to political science courses are more likely to already be interested in politics and have an increased knowledge. Therefore, what we demonstrate is that, while Twitter in and of itself does not independently foster civic engagement, employing it as a pedagogical tool taps into and strengthens the predispositions of students in political science classes, namely political interest and efficacy. Our results contribute to a fresh and much needed discussion in political science literature about ways to increase civic engagement of Millennials.']
['Choo, Suzanne S.', 'Towards a transnational model of critical values education: the case for literature education in Singapore', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02188791.2014.922051', "Once regarded as the most essential subject in the national curriculum vital for civilizing the public, English Literature has now lost its place of prominence. In this paper, I focus on Singapore where the subject was a core aspect of the colonial curriculum and where it is currently facing declining enrolment at the national examinations. In the first part of the paper, I discuss how Literature initially functioned to propagate colonial values education in Singapore and how, following Singapore's independence, its goals were overtaken by a nation-state model of values education. Limitations of this model provide the grounds for a transnational model of critical values education that, as I argue in the second part, may be powerfully conveyed through Literature. It is Literature's capacity to facilitate transnational critical engagements with values and explorations of identity especially involving highly sensitive aspects related to gender, race, and religion that represents the strongest justification in the light of its present demise. What Literature offers is the possibility of engaging with values beyond the confines of Empire or nation by grappling with essential questions about what it means to be a cosmopolitan as opposed to a nationalistic citizen inhabiting the world. Once regarded as the most essential subject in the national curriculum vital for civilizing the public, English Literature has now lost its place of prominence. In this paper, I focus on Singapore where the subject was a core aspect of the colonial curriculum and where it is currently facing declining enrolment at the national examinations. In the first part of the paper, I discuss how Literature initially functioned to propagate colonial values education in Singapore and how, following Singapore's independence, its goals were overtaken by a nation-state model of values education. Limitations of this model provide the grounds for a transnational model of critical values education that, as I argue in the second part, may be powerfully conveyed through Literature. It is Literature's capacity to facilitate transnational critical engagements with values and explorations of identity especially involving highly sensitive aspects related to gender, race, and religion that represents the strongest justification in the light of its present demise. What Literature offers is the possibility of engaging with values beyond the confines of Empire or nation by grappling with essential questions about what it means to be a cosmopolitan as opposed to a nationalistic citizen inhabiting the world."]
['Connors, John Patrick; Lei, Shufei & Kelly, Maggi', 'Citizen Science in the Age of Neogeography: Utilizing Volunteered Geographic Information for Environmental Monitoring', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00045608.2011.627058', 'The interface between neogeography and citizen science has great potential for environmental monitoring, but this nexus has been explored less often than each subject individually. In this article we review the emerging role of volunteered geographic information in citizen science and present a case study of an integrated tool set that engages multiple types of users (from targeted citizen-based observation networks, expert-driven focused monitoring, and opportunistic crowdsourcing efforts) in monitoring a forest disease in the western United States. We first introduce the overall challenge of data collection in environmental monitoring projects and then discuss the literature surrounding an emergent integration of citizen science and volunteered geographical information. We next explore how these methods characterize and underpin knowledge discovery and how multimodal interaction is supported so that a large spectrum of contributors can be included. These concepts are summarized in a conceptual model that articulates the important gradients of Web-based environmental monitoring: the users, the interaction between users and data, and the types of information generated. Using this model, we critically examine OakMapper.org, a Web site created by the authors to collect and distribute spatial information related to the spread of a forest disease, and discuss many of the core issues and new challenges presented by the intersection of citizen science and volunteered geographic information in the context of environmental monitoring. We argue that environmental monitoring can benefit from this synergy: The increased emphasis on a diversity of participants in knowledge production might help to reduce the gaps that have in the past divided the public, researchers, and policymakers in such efforts. The interface between neogeography and citizen science has great potential for environmental monitoring, but this nexus has been explored less often than each subject individually. In this article we review the emerging role of volunteered geographic information in citizen science and present a case study of an integrated tool set that engages multiple types of users (from targeted citizen-based observation networks, expert-driven focused monitoring, and opportunistic crowdsourcing efforts) in monitoring a forest disease in the western United States. We first introduce the overall challenge of data collection in environmental monitoring projects and then discuss the literature surrounding an emergent integration of citizen science and volunteered geographical information. We next explore how these methods characterize and underpin knowledge discovery and how multimodal interaction is supported so that a large spectrum of contributors can be included. These concepts are summarized in a conceptual model that articulates the important gradients of Web-based environmental monitoring: the users, the interaction between users and data, and the types of information generated. Using this model, we critically examine OakMapper.org, a Web site created by the authors to collect and distribute spatial information related to the spread of a forest disease, and discuss many of the core issues and new challenges presented by the intersection of citizen science and volunteered geographic information in the context of environmental monitoring. We argue that environmental monitoring can benefit from this synergy: The increased emphasis on a diversity of participants in knowledge production might help to reduce the gaps that have in the past divided the public, researchers, and policymakers in such efforts.']
['Davies, Sarah R. & Selin, Cynthia', 'Energy Futures: Five Dilemmas of the Practice of Anticipatory Governance', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17524032.2011.644632', 'Public participation has become standard practice in both environmental communication and science and technology studies, with such engagement increasingly moving ?upstream? to the early stages of technological development. One framework for these activities is anticipatory governance, in which foresight and public and stakeholder engagement are used to reflect on?and direct?the impacts of new technology. In this essay we draw on our experience of anticipatory governance, in the shape of the ?NanoFutures? project on energy futures, to present a reflexive analysis of engagement and deliberation. We draw out five tensions of the practice of deliberation on energy technologies. Through tracing the lineages of these dilemmas, we discuss some of the implications of these tensions for the practice of civic engagement and deliberation in a set of questions for this community of practitioner-scholars. Public participation has become standard practice in both environmental communication and science and technology studies, with such engagement increasingly moving ?upstream? to the early stages of technological development. One framework for these activities is anticipatory governance, in which foresight and public and stakeholder engagement are used to reflect on?and direct?the impacts of new technology. In this essay we draw on our experience of anticipatory governance, in the shape of the ?NanoFutures? project on energy futures, to present a reflexive analysis of engagement and deliberation. We draw out five tensions of the practice of deliberation on energy technologies. Through tracing the lineages of these dilemmas, we discuss some of the implications of these tensions for the practice of civic engagement and deliberation in a set of questions for this community of practitioner-scholars.']
['Desouza, Kevin C. & Bhagwatwar, Akshay', 'Citizen Apps to Solve Complex Urban Problems', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10630732.2012.673056', 'Tackling complex urban problems requires us to examine and leverage diverse sources of information. Today, cities capture large amounts of information in real-time. Data are captured on transportation patterns, electricity and water consumption, citizen use of government services (e.g., parking meters), and even on weather events. Through open data initiatives, government agencies are making information available to citizens. In turn, citizens are building applications that exploit this information to solve local urban problems. Citizens are also building platforms where they can share information regarding government services. Information that was previously unavailable is now being used to gauge quality of services, choose services, and report illegal and unethical behaviors (e.g., requesting bribes). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper to examine the range of citizen applications (?citizen apps?) targeting urban issues and to address their effects on urban planning, decision-making, problem solving, and governance. We examine citizen apps that address a wide range of urban issues from those that solve public transportation challenges to those that improve the management of public utilities and services and even public safety. Tackling complex urban problems requires us to examine and leverage diverse sources of information. Today, cities capture large amounts of information in real-time. Data are captured on transportation patterns, electricity and water consumption, citizen use of government services (e.g., parking meters), and even on weather events. Through open data initiatives, government agencies are making information available to citizens. In turn, citizens are building applications that exploit this information to solve local urban problems. Citizens are also building platforms where they can share information regarding government services. Information that was previously unavailable is now being used to gauge quality of services, choose services, and report illegal and unethical behaviors (e.g., requesting bribes). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper to examine the range of citizen applications (?citizen apps?) targeting urban issues and to address their effects on urban planning, decision-making, problem solving, and governance. We examine citizen apps that address a wide range of urban issues from those that solve public transportation challenges to those that improve the management of public utilities and services and even public safety.']
['Duffy, Simon', 'The Citizenship Theory of social justice: exploring the meaning of personalisation for social workers', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02650533.2010.500118', 'Personalisation is a new term that is being used in different ways. Often it is used as a shorthand for a range of new forms of practice, or technologies. These new technologies include direct payments, self-directed support, individual budgets and person-centred planning. The values which underpin these technologies have developed from the experiences of disabled people, but these values are not well represented in theories of social justice. This paper describes a new theory, a Citizenship Theory of social justice, that is based on two fundamental moral beliefs: (a) the equal dignity of all human beings; and (b) the positive value of human diversity and difference. Developing this theory of social justice leads to an inclusive model of citizenship and an imperative to organise society so that everyone can become a citizen. Social workers could see personalisation as an externally imposed dogma, but this will lead to defensiveness, resistance and cynicism. However the profession could instead embrace the technologies of personalisation, and the Citizenship Theory that should underpin it. It is this second path that will lead to critical engagement and the practical use and improvement of the tools of personalisation. Personalisation is a new term that is being used in different ways. Often it is used as a shorthand for a range of new forms of practice, or technologies. These new technologies include direct payments, self-directed support, individual budgets and person-centred planning. The values which underpin these technologies have developed from the experiences of disabled people, but these values are not well represented in theories of social justice. This paper describes a new theory, a Citizenship Theory of social justice, that is based on two fundamental moral beliefs: (a) the equal dignity of all human beings; and (b) the positive value of human diversity and difference. Developing this theory of social justice leads to an inclusive model of citizenship and an imperative to organise society so that everyone can become a citizen. Social workers could see personalisation as an externally imposed dogma, but this will lead to defensiveness, resistance and cynicism. However the profession could instead embrace the technologies of personalisation, and the Citizenship Theory that should underpin it. It is this second path that will lead to critical engagement and the practical use and improvement of the tools of personalisation.']
['Evans, Mark & Pratchett, Lawrence', 'The localism gap - the CLEAR failings of official consultation in the Murray Darling Basin', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01442872.2013.862448', 'This article argues that the inability of the Commonwealth and State Governments in Australia to affect significant progress on water reform is largely a product of their inability to win the hearts and minds of rural communities; a failure to understand the importance of localism. Hitherto, the failure to bring the politics back in and integrate community voices into the process of policy development has proved the major obstacle to the achievement of a balanced social and environmental perspective in the Murray Darling Basin (MDB) and has served to reinforce traditional prejudices. This article makes four main contributions to the study of communities experiencing stress. Firstly, we present the case for deep local democratization in times of stress. Secondly, we build on a diagnostic tool ? the Can do Like to Enabled to Asked to Responded to (CLEAR) model ? to evaluate the effectiveness of the consultation process underpinning the Guide to the Murray Darling Basin Plan (MDBP) and apply it to the Forbes consultation. Thirdly and fourthly, we use the findings from this evaluation to identify principles of community engagement which provide the best possible conditions for effective social mobilization and the capabilities that are necessary to deliver effective citizen-centric policy outcomes in communities experiencing high levels of stress This article argues that the inability of the Commonwealth and State Governments in Australia to affect significant progress on water reform is largely a product of their inability to win the hearts and minds of rural communities; a failure to understand the importance of localism. Hitherto, the failure to bring the politics back in and integrate community voices into the process of policy development has proved the major obstacle to the achievement of a balanced social and environmental perspective in the Murray Darling Basin (MDB) and has served to reinforce traditional prejudices. This article makes four main contributions to the study of communities experiencing stress. Firstly, we present the case for deep local democratization in times of stress. Secondly, we build on a diagnostic tool ? the Can do Like to Enabled to Asked to Responded to (CLEAR) model ? to evaluate the effectiveness of the consultation process underpinning the Guide to the Murray Darling Basin Plan (MDBP) and apply it to the Forbes consultation. Thirdly and fourthly, we use the findings from this evaluation to identify principles of community engagement which provide the best possible conditions for effective social mobilization and the capabilities that are necessary to deliver effective citizen-centric policy outcomes in communities experiencing high levels of stress']
['Grainger Clemson, Hannah', 'Trailfinders--curating an interactive city promenade experience with mobile phones', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14626268.2014.904362', 'AbstractWith a growing number of embedded digital experiences in arts and heritage settings, creating a broad global field, this article focuses on the use of mobile phones in the engagement of humans with the cultural heritage of public spaces, specifically those that require a promenade from one outdoor space to another. This article discusses findings from a recent promenade initiative, commissioned for a UK arts festival, along with a review of literature, to critically engage with growing evidence of the diverse ways in which technology is integrated at direct user level. Concepts of ?hybrid spaces? and ?user agency? are discussed, along with the ?performativity? of spaces. Central to the discussion is the function of narrative in engaging the participant to construct new perspectives, which are facilitated by the mediating role of personal media devices between subject, narrative, space and community. AbstractWith a growing number of embedded digital experiences in arts and heritage settings, creating a broad global field, this article focuses on the use of mobile phones in the engagement of humans with the cultural heritage of public spaces, specifically those that require a promenade from one outdoor space to another. This article discusses findings from a recent promenade initiative, commissioned for a UK arts festival, along with a review of literature, to critically engage with growing evidence of the diverse ways in which technology is integrated at direct user level. Concepts of ?hybrid spaces? and ?user agency? are discussed, along with the ?performativity? of spaces. Central to the discussion is the function of narrative in engaging the participant to construct new perspectives, which are facilitated by the mediating role of personal media devices between subject, narrative, space and community.']
['Hale, Richard & Saville, Martin', 'Nurturing the H in HR: using action learning to build organisation development capability in the UK Civil Service', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14767333.2014.965021', "In the UK, the Civil Service Reform Plan is being implemented with urgency. This requires Civil Service departments and agencies to reform their structures and ways of working in order to deliver effective services in a climate of economic austerity and rapid social and technological change. Historically, Human Resource (HR) professionals have provided services based on the HR Business Partner model which has meant a focus on strategic and operational HR services. As part of these changes, HR managers and other professionals are now required to develop their capabilities in providing Organisation Development (OD) advice to their internal clients. In order to make this happen, the Civil Service's expert OD and Design Service launched an OD Capability Building programme and engaged OD specialists Mayvin to deliver it. The programme incorporates the postgraduate level-accredited Action Learning Question method developed by Dr Richard Hale called, in this context, OD Questions (ODQs). Participants on the OD Capability Building programme are required to complete an ODQ over a five- to six-month period. This entails scoping an OD challenge with key stakeholders, conducting some research and making recommendations for change or implementing such change. The participants work in ?action learning sets? and support each other with their problem solving and learning. A final report is written up by each participant leading to the award of postgraduate-level credits. Examples of ODQ areas include: How can I support a newly appointed Director General to align his team to address their challenges at a time of rapid change? How can I help my client department to improve employee engagement? How can I develop my own capability in working as a business partner and adding value alongside my client? In the UK, the Civil Service Reform Plan is being implemented with urgency. This requires Civil Service departments and agencies to reform their structures and ways of working in order to deliver effective services in a climate of economic austerity and rapid social and technological change. Historically, Human Resource (HR) professionals have provided services based on the HR Business Partner model which has meant a focus on strategic and operational HR services. As part of these changes, HR managers and other professionals are now required to develop their capabilities in providing Organisation Development (OD) advice to their internal clients. In order to make this happen, the Civil Service's expert OD and Design Service launched an OD Capability Building programme and engaged OD specialists Mayvin to deliver it. The programme incorporates the postgraduate level-accredited Action Learning Question method developed by Dr Richard Hale called, in this context, OD Questions (ODQs). Participants on the OD Capability Building programme are required to complete an ODQ over a five- to six-month period. This entails scoping an OD challenge with key stakeholders, conducting some research and making recommendations for change or implementing such change. The participants work in ?action learning sets? and support each other with their problem solving and learning. A final report is written up by each participant leading to the award of postgraduate-level credits. Examples of ODQ areas include: How can I support a newly appointed Director General to align his team to address their challenges at a time of rapid change? How can I help my client department to improve employee engagement? How can I develop my own capability in working as a business partner and adding value alongside my client?"]
['Heikkila, Eric J.', 'Environmentalism with Chinese Characteristics? Urban River Revitalization in Foshan', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14649357.2011.549747', "Human settlements have long been located on rivers, and the relationship of the place to the river functions as a deep reflection of its historical, cultural, and socio-economic traditions. This paper explores urban river revitalization in contemporary China, focusing particularly on ongoing efforts to clean up Foshan's polluted Fenjiang River. The research shows that the traditional cultural status of the waterway, which is known as the ?Mother River? of Foshan, plays a paradoxically pivotal role in the project to modernize it. Interacting in complex ways with domestic and international political concerns, and popular media and internet technologies, the cultural status of the river has helped to determine both the type of environmental movement that has emerged in its defence, and the community of interests that serves as a proxy for civil society in that movement. Ultimately, this paper argues that the unique configuration of institutions and actors engaged in the Fenjiang River restoration project are emblematic of a new type of ?environmentalism with Chinese characteristics.? Human settlements have long been located on rivers, and the relationship of the place to the river functions as a deep reflection of its historical, cultural, and socio-economic traditions. This paper explores urban river revitalization in contemporary China, focusing particularly on ongoing efforts to clean up Foshan's polluted Fenjiang River. The research shows that the traditional cultural status of the waterway, which is known as the ?Mother River? of Foshan, plays a paradoxically pivotal role in the project to modernize it. Interacting in complex ways with domestic and international political concerns, and popular media and internet technologies, the cultural status of the river has helped to determine both the type of environmental movement that has emerged in its defence, and the community of interests that serves as a proxy for civil society in that movement. Ultimately, this paper argues that the unique configuration of institutions and actors engaged in the Fenjiang River restoration project are emblematic of a new type of ?environmentalism with Chinese characteristics.?"]
['Hossain, Liaquat; Khalili, Sanaz & Uddin, Shahadat', 'Inter-Organizational Coordination Dynamics during Crisis', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.3166/JDS.20.383-396', 'This paper addresses decision making process for emerging coordination in interorganizational collaborations during disasters. Lack of resources, decision making process, and poor communication are recurring problems for organizational performance in disaster operations. The aim of this study is to explore decision making during crisis through social networks. We hypothesize that the structural positions of organizations within interorganizational collaboration network have implications on the potential to coordinate leading to improved decision making in uncertain environments. To measure the structural positions of nodes, we consider three network attributes: ego-betweenness, degree centrality, and tie strength. A single qualitative survey question is used to measure coordination preparedness. We noticed that all three structural attributes have positive associations with coordination preparedness. This paper addresses decision making process for emerging coordination in interorganizational collaborations during disasters. Lack of resources, decision making process, and poor communication are recurring problems for organizational performance in disaster operations. The aim of this study is to explore decision making during crisis through social networks. We hypothesize that the structural positions of organizations within interorganizational collaboration network have implications on the potential to coordinate leading to improved decision making in uncertain environments. To measure the structural positions of nodes, we consider three network attributes: ego-betweenness, degree centrality, and tie strength. A single qualitative survey question is used to measure coordination preparedness. We noticed that all three structural attributes have positive associations with coordination preparedness.']
['Johnson, Bonnie J. & Halegoua, Germaine R.', 'Can Social Media Save a Neighborhood Organization?', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02697459.2015.1051319', 'Positive discourse around social media and civic engagement inspired a neighborhood association with few members and resources to use these services. They hoped to revive the neighborhood association and attract new and younger members. They received five Facebook ?likes? and three Twitter followers out of 550 households. Survey results revealed a mismatch between perceptions of ?neighborly? and social media ties and expectations for neighborhood communication. However, residents most interested in the neighborhood association were those who chose social media for neighborhood outreach, not those choosing email or postal mail. Ultimately, using multiple communication methods is ideal, but targeting residents via social media might be a starting point for planners and resource poor organizations. Positive discourse around social media and civic engagement inspired a neighborhood association with few members and resources to use these services. They hoped to revive the neighborhood association and attract new and younger members. They received five Facebook ?likes? and three Twitter followers out of 550 households. Survey results revealed a mismatch between perceptions of ?neighborly? and social media ties and expectations for neighborhood communication. However, residents most interested in the neighborhood association were those who chose social media for neighborhood outreach, not those choosing email or postal mail. Ultimately, using multiple communication methods is ideal, but targeting residents via social media might be a starting point for planners and resource poor organizations.']
['Kivits, Robbert A', 'Three component stakeholder analysis', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.5172/mra.2011.5.3.318', 'AbstractBoth public and private organizations are increasingly employing stakeholder engagement as an important strategy for improving external stakeholder relations. Incorporating stakeholders? opinions is valuable for improving decision-making processes and project implementation [Deelstra, Nooteboom, Kohlmann, van den Berg,  Reed et al. (2009) Who?s in and why? A typology of stakeholder analysis methods for natural resource management. Journal of Environmental Management, 90(5), 1933?1949], has been insufficiently explored. At present, there is no integrated stakeholder analysis method that investigates the stakeholder sufficiently, i.e., from multiple space?time subjectivities, rather then from a single space?time representation. To arrive at an integrated stakeholder analysis methodology, Reed et al. (2009) have suggested investigating the potential for combining existing methods to derive more useful results. This article will therefore offer a new integrated framework, covering all components; salience, frames of reference and networks. AbstractBoth public and private organizations are increasingly employing stakeholder engagement as an important strategy for improving external stakeholder relations. Incorporating stakeholders? opinions is valuable for improving decision-making processes and project implementation [Deelstra, Nooteboom, Kohlmann, van den Berg,  Reed et al. (2009) Who?s in and why? A typology of stakeholder analysis methods for natural resource management. Journal of Environmental Management, 90(5), 1933?1949], has been insufficiently explored. At present, there is no integrated stakeholder analysis method that investigates the stakeholder sufficiently, i.e., from multiple space?time subjectivities, rather then from a single space?time representation. To arrive at an integrated stakeholder analysis methodology, Reed et al. (2009) have suggested investigating the potential for combining existing methods to derive more useful results. This article will therefore offer a new integrated framework, covering all components; salience, frames of reference and networks.']
['Kotilainen, Sirkku & Rantala, Leena', 'FROM SEEKERS TO ACTIVISTS', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13691180802345865', "Media culture is a firm part of youth cultures today. Media can also be seen as one empowering technology in the information society alongside traditional school and government. What kind of civic identities are young people constructing in contemporary media culture? This article discusses media-saturated youth and audience agency, drawing on Dahlgren's ideas of civic culture. Relying on empirical data from two case studies in Finland, we will introduce a typology of civic identities, which the young construct as members of the public in relation to media. Our first case study is a youth civic website called Vaikuttamo.net and the second is the Youth Voice Editorial Board, which consists of a group of young people producing news for mainstream media. Our research supports various earlier observations that young people are firmly engaged, though to a lesser extent, in the formal political realm. We particularly want to emphasize the role of the local media and the expressive potential of young people. The media should be noted as a public forum where cultural and political modes of expression and participation can be mixed ? not only in global online media, but also in more traditional local media such as television and newspaper. The research shows that young people are also willing to enter generational public discussions about civic issues instead of keeping to their own forums of media publicity. Media culture is a firm part of youth cultures today. Media can also be seen as one empowering technology in the information society alongside traditional school and government. What kind of civic identities are young people constructing in contemporary media culture? This article discusses media-saturated youth and audience agency, drawing on Dahlgren's ideas of civic culture. Relying on empirical data from two case studies in Finland, we will introduce a typology of civic identities, which the young construct as members of the public in relation to media. Our first case study is a youth civic website called Vaikuttamo.net and the second is the Youth Voice Editorial Board, which consists of a group of young people producing news for mainstream media. Our research supports various earlier observations that young people are firmly engaged, though to a lesser extent, in the formal political realm. We particularly want to emphasize the role of the local media and the expressive potential of young people. The media should be noted as a public forum where cultural and political modes of expression and participation can be mixed ? not only in global online media, but also in more traditional local media such as television and newspaper. The research shows that young people are also willing to enter generational public discussions about civic issues instead of keeping to their own forums of media publicity."]
['Ksiazek, Thomas B.; Peer, Limor & Zivic, Andrew', 'Discussing the News', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21670811.2014.972079', 'The provision of online news provides unique opportunities for users to interact with content and with other users. One of the more common forms of interactivity involves commenting on news stories. These interactive features are often heralded for enabling virtual public discussion of current events. Yet there exists a widespread belief that these spaces fail to meet that lofty goal, instead exhibiting hostile and vitriolic discourse, which undermines the deliberative potential of online interaction. At the same time, there is a lack of consensus among researchers regarding the proper conceptualization of hostility, and its more desirable counterpart, civility. This article aims to integrate normative and contextual conceptual definitions of hostility and civility in online interactions with the news. Building on these, we develop operational definitions of the two concepts and analyze the presence of hostile and civil discussion in user comments posted to YouTube news videos. Further, we explore the possibility that the content and source of those news videos, as well as popularity and engagement metrics, may explain the degree of hostility and civility in comments. The provision of online news provides unique opportunities for users to interact with content and with other users. One of the more common forms of interactivity involves commenting on news stories. These interactive features are often heralded for enabling virtual public discussion of current events. Yet there exists a widespread belief that these spaces fail to meet that lofty goal, instead exhibiting hostile and vitriolic discourse, which undermines the deliberative potential of online interaction. At the same time, there is a lack of consensus among researchers regarding the proper conceptualization of hostility, and its more desirable counterpart, civility. This article aims to integrate normative and contextual conceptual definitions of hostility and civility in online interactions with the news. Building on these, we develop operational definitions of the two concepts and analyze the presence of hostile and civil discussion in user comments posted to YouTube news videos. Further, we explore the possibility that the content and source of those news videos, as well as popularity and engagement metrics, may explain the degree of hostility and civility in comments.']
['Lenzner, Ben', 'The emergence of Occupy Wall Street and digital video practices: Tim Pool, live streaming and experimentations in citizen journalism', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17503280.2014.961634', "The relationship between digital video technologies, practitioners and the possibility spaces in which nascent digital video practices assemble relies on the dynamic engagement between technological possibilities and creative practices. This paper examines the relationship between practitioners, technology and technological infrastructure within documentary media practices that emerged in and around the Occupy Wall Street movement.In locales with well-connected infrastructure, the collaboration between hardware, software and global communications networks, often allows for makers of digital video to rapidly upload footage to real-time online platforms. Although quick uploading capacity appears to offer a relative ease of documentation, the immediacy of publication can be at once liberating and exceedingly complex in both the ethical and creative quandaries that may arise, for example, from the live streaming of political protests. How might relationships between live streaming and documentary methods of video production offer the practitioner and the audience a clearer sense of how documentary may or may not be evolving as a constantly changing, experimental and creative form of storytelling? This paper will examine the intricacies and ethics of these evolving relationships through an examination of the evolution of Tim Pool's live streaming practice that came to prominence during the Occupy Wall Street movement. The relationship between digital video technologies, practitioners and the possibility spaces in which nascent digital video practices assemble relies on the dynamic engagement between technological possibilities and creative practices. This paper examines the relationship between practitioners, technology and technological infrastructure within documentary media practices that emerged in and around the Occupy Wall Street movement.In locales with well-connected infrastructure, the collaboration between hardware, software and global communications networks, often allows for makers of digital video to rapidly upload footage to real-time online platforms. Although quick uploading capacity appears to offer a relative ease of documentation, the immediacy of publication can be at once liberating and exceedingly complex in both the ethical and creative quandaries that may arise, for example, from the live streaming of political protests. How might relationships between live streaming and documentary methods of video production offer the practitioner and the audience a clearer sense of how documentary may or may not be evolving as a constantly changing, experimental and creative form of storytelling? This paper will examine the intricacies and ethics of these evolving relationships through an examination of the evolution of Tim Pool's live streaming practice that came to prominence during the Occupy Wall Street movement."]
['Levental, Simcha', 'A New Geospatial Services Framework: How Disaster Preparedness Efforts Should Integrate Neogeography', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15420353.2012.670084', 'Geospatial technologies can be used in many intervention stages, from adaptation to disaster relief, and also in disaster response situations. These technological tools have been shown to have a transformative power on the quality and efficacy of response efforts. This paper focuses on the risk reduction phase. This phase is a continuous endeavor aimed at increasing resilience. For example, in the aftermath of the 2010 Haiti earthquake, groups of remotely stationed volunteers remapped Haiti using satellite imagery. Forces on the ground used this imagery to print maps using OpenStreetMap (OSM). Using cell-phone text messages, Short Message Service (SMS) response forces were able to locate and rescue citizens. The Ushahidi platform and OSM created a new paradigm for disaster response in which residents take the lead in operations. Unfortunately, this was able to happen only after the disaster hit. The following paper suggests a roadmap for the integration of crowd-sourcing tools and geospatial collaboration for the disaster preparedness phase. This multitiered proposal connects proper planning processes that engage the community, reduce risk, and ultimately provide for a more resilient community. The paper also aims to take the new disaster response paradigm and use it in the urban planning process. Rather than being a separate process, the disaster preparedness phase should enhance and strengthen communities, resulting in their becoming stronger and more resilient. Geospatial technologies can be used in many intervention stages, from adaptation to disaster relief, and also in disaster response situations. These technological tools have been shown to have a transformative power on the quality and efficacy of response efforts. This paper focuses on the risk reduction phase. This phase is a continuous endeavor aimed at increasing resilience. For example, in the aftermath of the 2010 Haiti earthquake, groups of remotely stationed volunteers remapped Haiti using satellite imagery. Forces on the ground used this imagery to print maps using OpenStreetMap (OSM). Using cell-phone text messages, Short Message Service (SMS) response forces were able to locate and rescue citizens. The Ushahidi platform and OSM created a new paradigm for disaster response in which residents take the lead in operations. Unfortunately, this was able to happen only after the disaster hit. The following paper suggests a roadmap for the integration of crowd-sourcing tools and geospatial collaboration for the disaster preparedness phase. This multitiered proposal connects proper planning processes that engage the community, reduce risk, and ultimately provide for a more resilient community. The paper also aims to take the new disaster response paradigm and use it in the urban planning process. Rather than being a separate process, the disaster preparedness phase should enhance and strengthen communities, resulting in their becoming stronger and more resilient.']
['Lievrouw, Leah A.', 'Social Media and the Production of Knowledge: A Return to Little Science?', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02691728.2010.499177', 'In the classic study Little science, big science (New York: Columbia University Press, 1963), Derek Price traces the historical shift from what he calls little science?exemplified by early?modern ?invisible colleges? of scientific amateurs and enthusiasts engaged in small?scale, informal interactions and personal correspondence?to 20th?century big science, dominated by professional scientists and wealthy institutions, where scientific information (primarily in print form and its analogues) was mass?produced, marketed and circulated on a global scale. This article considers whether the growing use of more participatory, interactive ?Web 2.0? technologies and social media in science today (e.g. wikis, blogs, tagging and bookmarking, conferencing, etc.) may signal a revival of little science modes of communication that contrast with big science conventions that continue to dominate research policy, scientific institutions, and the publishing industry. A brief historical review of responses to the scientific ?information explosion? since the early 1900s is presented, with a particular focus on the idealization of large?scale, automated information systems and the privileging of formal (document?producing) over informal (interpersonal) modes of scientific communication. Alternative frameworks for scientific communication that incorporate both documents and interaction are used to examine contemporary examples of so?called Science 2.0 and citizen science projects to determine whether such projects indicate the emergence of new modes of communication in science that bridge the immediacy and involvement of invisible colleges and the rigor of peer?reviewed publishing. The implications for traditional documentary forms such as the journal article are also discussed. In the classic study Little science, big science (New York: Columbia University Press, 1963), Derek Price traces the historical shift from what he calls little science?exemplified by early?modern ?invisible colleges? of scientific amateurs and enthusiasts engaged in small?scale, informal interactions and personal correspondence?to 20th?century big science, dominated by professional scientists and wealthy institutions, where scientific information (primarily in print form and its analogues) was mass?produced, marketed and circulated on a global scale. This article considers whether the growing use of more participatory, interactive ?Web 2.0? technologies and social media in science today (e.g. wikis, blogs, tagging and bookmarking, conferencing, etc.) may signal a revival of little science modes of communication that contrast with big science conventions that continue to dominate research policy, scientific institutions, and the publishing industry. A brief historical review of responses to the scientific ?information explosion? since the early 1900s is presented, with a particular focus on the idealization of large?scale, automated information systems and the privileging of formal (document?producing) over informal (interpersonal) modes of scientific communication. Alternative frameworks for scientific communication that incorporate both documents and interaction are used to examine contemporary examples of so?called Science 2.0 and citizen science projects to determine whether such projects indicate the emergence of new modes of communication in science that bridge the immediacy and involvement of invisible colleges and the rigor of peer?reviewed publishing. The implications for traditional documentary forms such as the journal article are also discussed.']
['Marchionni, Doreen', 'CONVERSATIONAL JOURNALISM IN PRACTICE', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21670811.2012.748513', 'This case study builds on recent experimental research that sought to measure journalism-as-a-conversation, or co-created news between citizens and journalists, by overlaying it on The Seattle Times? 2010 Pulitzer Prize-winning coverage of the slayings of four sheriff?s deputies. Pulitzer jurors singled out that coverage for its smart use of Web tools to enhance audience engagement and the paper?s overall online presence without sacrificing accuracy. Findings suggest the growing power of such tools in breaking news and beyond, but also the need for less common but perhaps more humanizing efforts, including short, personalized videos of journalists stepping from behind the veil of objectivity to discuss how they do what they do. This case study builds on recent experimental research that sought to measure journalism-as-a-conversation, or co-created news between citizens and journalists, by overlaying it on The Seattle Times? 2010 Pulitzer Prize-winning coverage of the slayings of four sheriff?s deputies. Pulitzer jurors singled out that coverage for its smart use of Web tools to enhance audience engagement and the paper?s overall online presence without sacrificing accuracy. Findings suggest the growing power of such tools in breaking news and beyond, but also the need for less common but perhaps more humanizing efforts, including short, personalized videos of journalists stepping from behind the veil of objectivity to discuss how they do what they do.']
['Mohamed Haneef, M. Shuaib', 'Resistance to BT Brinjal in India: cyberactivism in Greenpeace website', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01296612.2015.1072346', 'This paper captures the online discourse on BT Brinjal (Bacillus Thuringiensis Brinjal) in an online forum initiated by www.greenpeace.org in 2010 following the government?s decision to palm off the hybrid variety to farmers. In addition, the study provides insight into the ?tones? and ?perspectives? of the discussions surrounding BT Brinjal mostly in opposing the cultural shift from the organic to the genetically modified crop the government was attempting to impose on the social consciousness of the public and especially farmers. The study takes off from the Habermas public sphere theory applied to the interactive potential of the Internet. Deliberative and democratic social actions through the participation of citizens in the digital medium do not produce groups that arrive at a consensus. Instead, what is engendered are different publics, smaller, loosely connected, and engaging in ideology-based issues, producing polyvocal discourses. This paper captures the online discourse on BT Brinjal (Bacillus Thuringiensis Brinjal) in an online forum initiated by www.greenpeace.org in 2010 following the government?s decision to palm off the hybrid variety to farmers. In addition, the study provides insight into the ?tones? and ?perspectives? of the discussions surrounding BT Brinjal mostly in opposing the cultural shift from the organic to the genetically modified crop the government was attempting to impose on the social consciousness of the public and especially farmers. The study takes off from the Habermas public sphere theory applied to the interactive potential of the Internet. Deliberative and democratic social actions through the participation of citizens in the digital medium do not produce groups that arrive at a consensus. Instead, what is engendered are different publics, smaller, loosely connected, and engaging in ideology-based issues, producing polyvocal discourses.']
['Morgan, Alun D.', 'Learning communities, cities and regions for sustainable development and global citizenship', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13549830902903773', 'An emerging convergence is discernible in planning, governance and educational discourses towards place-based learning and participatory approaches in the pursuit of sustainable development (SD). Common themes include the development and application of strategies for facilitating multi-stakeholder learning communities to engage in collaborative learning, enquiry and action concerning issues of sustainability and global citizenship relevant to the home locality. The home locality is most often being formulated in terms of neighbourhood, city and/or regional scales since these represent identifiable and meaningful contexts within which social learning, participation and action can most readily be facilitated. The broad notion of ?learning communities, cities and regions for SD and global citizenship? can be seen as powerful formulation emerging from this convergence characterised by concepts, approaches and tools currently emerging at the interface between participatory approaches to local/regional planning, and place-based education for SD and involving the partnership of a range of ?learning stakeholders?. This article seeks to outline the nature and potential of these convergences. A number of pointers towards good practice and exemplars are also indicated, notably in terms of emerging Regional Centres for Excellence in Education for SD. An emerging convergence is discernible in planning, governance and educational discourses towards place-based learning and participatory approaches in the pursuit of sustainable development (SD). Common themes include the development and application of strategies for facilitating multi-stakeholder learning communities to engage in collaborative learning, enquiry and action concerning issues of sustainability and global citizenship relevant to the home locality. The home locality is most often being formulated in terms of neighbourhood, city and/or regional scales since these represent identifiable and meaningful contexts within which social learning, participation and action can most readily be facilitated. The broad notion of ?learning communities, cities and regions for SD and global citizenship? can be seen as powerful formulation emerging from this convergence characterised by concepts, approaches and tools currently emerging at the interface between participatory approaches to local/regional planning, and place-based education for SD and involving the partnership of a range of ?learning stakeholders?. This article seeks to outline the nature and potential of these convergences. A number of pointers towards good practice and exemplars are also indicated, notably in terms of emerging Regional Centres for Excellence in Education for SD.']
['Nah, Alice M.', 'Networks and norm entrepreneurship amongst local civil society actors: advancing refugee protection in the Asia Pacific region', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13642987.2016.1139333', 'Research on transnational advocacy networks has tended to focus on how non-state actors from developed countries interact with those from developing countries to pressure states, often by drawing in liberal Western states. This article adds a different perspective, focusing on how local civil society actors in different locales interact with each other to persuade their own governments ?from below?. It examines how these actors facilitate norm emergence amongst Asian states on issues with little domestic traction and for which there are well-developed international norms, standards and procedures. In studying the way local civil society actors conduct norm entrepreneurship, it is important to recognise the political, material and ideational conditions that constrain their work; their positionality and fragility in their own societies; and the way they relate to other actors working on the same issues. Focusing on the case of the Asia Pacific Refugee Rights Network, it is argued that working through a formalised network has changed the ways and the conditions under which local civil society actors engage in norm entrepreneurship on refugee protection. It has changed the attributes of actors, helping them develop visibility, capacity and connectedness through the formation of a ?community of practice?; it has changed power relations between them and other actors ? in particular, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees; it has facilitated the development of ?regional imagination? and the practice of ?scale shifting?, helping local actors move beyond domestic contexts to engage with state and non-state actors through regional and international fora. It has also introduced shifts in the dynamics of norm entrepreneurship by introducing a new actor ? the network itself, which exercises agency through a Secretariat ? and intra-network sensitivities, which need careful attention to prevent member disengagement. Research on transnational advocacy networks has tended to focus on how non-state actors from developed countries interact with those from developing countries to pressure states, often by drawing in liberal Western states. This article adds a different perspective, focusing on how local civil society actors in different locales interact with each other to persuade their own governments ?from below?. It examines how these actors facilitate norm emergence amongst Asian states on issues with little domestic traction and for which there are well-developed international norms, standards and procedures. In studying the way local civil society actors conduct norm entrepreneurship, it is important to recognise the political, material and ideational conditions that constrain their work; their positionality and fragility in their own societies; and the way they relate to other actors working on the same issues. Focusing on the case of the Asia Pacific Refugee Rights Network, it is argued that working through a formalised network has changed the ways and the conditions under which local civil society actors engage in norm entrepreneurship on refugee protection. It has changed the attributes of actors, helping them develop visibility, capacity and connectedness through the formation of a ?community of practice?; it has changed power relations between them and other actors ? in particular, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees; it has facilitated the development of ?regional imagination? and the practice of ?scale shifting?, helping local actors move beyond domestic contexts to engage with state and non-state actors through regional and international fora. It has also introduced shifts in the dynamics of norm entrepreneurship by introducing a new actor ? the network itself, which exercises agency through a Secretariat ? and intra-network sensitivities, which need careful attention to prevent member disengagement.']
['Nah, Seungahn; Namkoong, Kang; Chen, Nien-Tsu Nancy & Hustedde, Ronald J.', 'A communicative approach to community development: the effect of neighborhood storytelling network on civic participation', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15575330.2015.1094497', 'AbstractThis study draws upon communication infrastructure theory to investigate how communication networks stimulate civic participation within a community development context. According to the communication infrastructure theory (CIT), local communication resources enable citizens to engage in collective action for the common good. The CIT proposes neighborhood storytelling networks (NSNs) as core communication assets: interpersonal discussion, connection to community organizations, and connection to local media, including traditional mass media and the Internet. To examine the relationship between NSN and civic participation, data were collected from a probabilistic, representative sample through a mail survey in a southeastern state (N\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01154) in the US. Analysis reveals that individual sociodemographic characteristics and community context factors predicted connections to the NSN in a distinct way and such connections yielded positive relationships with civic participation. These results carry important theoretical, practical, and policy-related implications. AbstractThis study draws upon communication infrastructure theory to investigate how communication networks stimulate civic participation within a community development context. According to the communication infrastructure theory (CIT), local communication resources enable citizens to engage in collective action for the common good. The CIT proposes neighborhood storytelling networks (NSNs) as core communication assets: interpersonal discussion, connection to community organizations, and connection to local media, including traditional mass media and the Internet. To examine the relationship between NSN and civic participation, data were collected from a probabilistic, representative sample through a mail survey in a southeastern state (N\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01154) in the US. Analysis reveals that individual sociodemographic characteristics and community context factors predicted connections to the NSN in a distinct way and such connections yielded positive relationships with civic participation. These results carry important theoretical, practical, and policy-related implications.']
['P. M. Ribeiro, Sandra', 'Developing intercultural awareness using digital storytelling', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14708477.2015.1113752', 'ABSTRACTHigher Education mirrors the shifting nature of society and work. Mobility may provide unparalleled learning opportunities for all stakeholders; however, in order to live and work in plural societies as socially responsible and intercultural knowledgeable citizens, intercultural awareness and intercultural communication skills need to be mastered. In parallel, the relevance of a digital agenda and the studies that attest to the positive student engagement brought about by the inclusion of information and communication technologies (ICT) across all grade levels push educators to seek and incorporate technology-based learning and teaching strategies. Digital Storytelling was implemented in an undergraduate degree in Business Communication, where students discuss and reflect on key issues in Intercultural Communication. Our case study draws on the qualitative analysis of a questionnaire, which intended to understand student perceptions regarding an assignment where they are asked to create Digital Stories and consider on the their own reflection process regarding intercultural differences and communicating across cultures. Our analysis of the 140 questionnaires revealed that Digital Storytelling was able to engage students in a serious and productive debate revolving around technology-enhanced learning and cultural differences, empowering them to construct new personal and group meanings and improve their intercultural awareness. ABSTRACTHigher Education mirrors the shifting nature of society and work. Mobility may provide unparalleled learning opportunities for all stakeholders; however, in order to live and work in plural societies as socially responsible and intercultural knowledgeable citizens, intercultural awareness and intercultural communication skills need to be mastered. In parallel, the relevance of a digital agenda and the studies that attest to the positive student engagement brought about by the inclusion of information and communication technologies (ICT) across all grade levels push educators to seek and incorporate technology-based learning and teaching strategies. Digital Storytelling was implemented in an undergraduate degree in Business Communication, where students discuss and reflect on key issues in Intercultural Communication. Our case study draws on the qualitative analysis of a questionnaire, which intended to understand student perceptions regarding an assignment where they are asked to create Digital Stories and consider on the their own reflection process regarding intercultural differences and communicating across cultures. Our analysis of the 140 questionnaires revealed that Digital Storytelling was able to engage students in a serious and productive debate revolving around technology-enhanced learning and cultural differences, empowering them to construct new personal and group meanings and improve their intercultural awareness.']
['Pashby, Karen', 'Conflations, possibilities, and foreclosures: Global citizenship education in a multicultural context', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03626784.2015.1064304', 'This paper presents a critical framework applied to findings from a critical discourse analysis of curriculum and lesson plans in Alberta to examine the assumption that Canada is an ideal place for global citizenship education. The analysis draws on a framework that presents a critique of modernity to recognize a conflation within calls for new approaches to educating citizens for the twenty-first century. A main finding is that although the Alberta curriculum reflects important potential for promoting a critical approach, a conflation of different versions of liberalism often results in a false sense of multiple perspectives and a foreclosure of potential. The paper argues for a critical approach to global citizenship education that engages with the tensions inherent to issues of diversity rather than stepping over or reducing them to theoretically and conceptually vague ideas of universalism and consensus. This paper presents a critical framework applied to findings from a critical discourse analysis of curriculum and lesson plans in Alberta to examine the assumption that Canada is an ideal place for global citizenship education. The analysis draws on a framework that presents a critique of modernity to recognize a conflation within calls for new approaches to educating citizens for the twenty-first century. A main finding is that although the Alberta curriculum reflects important potential for promoting a critical approach, a conflation of different versions of liberalism often results in a false sense of multiple perspectives and a foreclosure of potential. The paper argues for a critical approach to global citizenship education that engages with the tensions inherent to issues of diversity rather than stepping over or reducing them to theoretically and conceptually vague ideas of universalism and consensus.']
['Peters, Chris & Witschge, Tamara', 'From Grand Narratives of Democracy to Small Expectations of Participation', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17512786.2014.928455', "This article critically examines the invocation of democracy in the discourse of audience participation in digital journalism. Rather than simply restate the familiar grand narratives that traditionally described journalism's function for democracy (information source, watchdog, public representative, mediation for political actors), we compare and contrast conceptualisations of the audience found within these and discuss how digital technologies impact these relationships. We consider how ?participatory? transformations influence perceptions of news consumption and draw out analytic distinctions based on structures of participation and different levels of engagement. This article argues that the focus in digital journalism is not so much on citizen engagement but rather audience or user interaction; instead of participation through news, the focus is on participation in news. This demands we distinguish between minimalist and maximalist versions of participation through interactive tools, as there is a significant distinction between technologies that allow individuals to control and personalise content (basic digital control) and entire platforms that easily facilitate the storytelling and distribution of citizen journalism within public discourse (integrative structural participation). Furthermore, commercial interests tend to dominate the shaping of digital affordances, which can lead to individualistic rather than collective conceptualisations. This article concludes by considering what is gained as well as lost when grand visions of journalism's roles for democracy are appropriated or discarded in favour of a participation paradigm to conceptualise digital journalism. This article critically examines the invocation of democracy in the discourse of audience participation in digital journalism. Rather than simply restate the familiar grand narratives that traditionally described journalism's function for democracy (information source, watchdog, public representative, mediation for political actors), we compare and contrast conceptualisations of the audience found within these and discuss how digital technologies impact these relationships. We consider how ?participatory? transformations influence perceptions of news consumption and draw out analytic distinctions based on structures of participation and different levels of engagement. This article argues that the focus in digital journalism is not so much on citizen engagement but rather audience or user interaction; instead of participation through news, the focus is on participation in news. This demands we distinguish between minimalist and maximalist versions of participation through interactive tools, as there is a significant distinction between technologies that allow individuals to control and personalise content (basic digital control) and entire platforms that easily facilitate the storytelling and distribution of citizen journalism within public discourse (integrative structural participation). Furthermore, commercial interests tend to dominate the shaping of digital affordances, which can lead to individualistic rather than collective conceptualisations. This article concludes by considering what is gained as well as lost when grand visions of journalism's roles for democracy are appropriated or discarded in favour of a participation paradigm to conceptualise digital journalism."]
['Rahman, Ataur', 'A blended learning approach to teach fluid mechanics in engineering', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03043797.2016.1153044', 'ABSTRACTThis paper presents a case study on the teaching and learning of fluid mechanics at the University of Western Sydney (UWS), Australia, by applying a blended learning approach (BLA). In the adopted BLA, various flexible learning materials have been made available to the students such as online recorded lectures, online recorded tutorials, hand written tutorial solutions, discussion board and online practice quizzes. The lecture and tutorial class times have been primarily utilised to discuss confusing topics and engage students with practical issues in applying the theories learnt in fluid mechanics. Based on the data of over 734 students over a 4-year period, it has been shown that a BLA has improved the learning experience of the fluid mechanics students in UWS. The overall percentage of student satisfaction in this subject has increased by 18% in the BLA case compared with the traditional one. ABSTRACTThis paper presents a case study on the teaching and learning of fluid mechanics at the University of Western Sydney (UWS), Australia, by applying a blended learning approach (BLA). In the adopted BLA, various flexible learning materials have been made available to the students such as online recorded lectures, online recorded tutorials, hand written tutorial solutions, discussion board and online practice quizzes. The lecture and tutorial class times have been primarily utilised to discuss confusing topics and engage students with practical issues in applying the theories learnt in fluid mechanics. Based on the data of over 734 students over a 4-year period, it has been shown that a BLA has improved the learning experience of the fluid mechanics students in UWS. The overall percentage of student satisfaction in this subject has increased by 18% in the BLA case compared with the traditional one.']
['Rose, Jeremy & S\xc3\xa6b\xc3\xb8, \xc3\x98ystein', 'Designing Deliberation Systems', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01972241003712298', 'In a liberal democracy, the evolution of political agendas and formation of policy involves deliberation: serious consideration of political issues. Modern-day political participation is dependent on widespread deliberation supported by information and communication technologies, which also offer the potential to revitalize and transform citizen engagement in democracy. Although the majority of Web 2.0 systems enable these discourses to some extent, government institutions commission and manage specialized deliberation systems (information systems designed to support participative discourse) intended to promote citizen engagement. The most common examples of these are political discussion forums. Although usually considered trivial adaptations of well-known technologies, these types of deliberative systems are often unsuccessful, and present a distinct set of design and management challenges. In this article, the authors analyze the issues involved in establishing political deliberation systems under four headings: stakeholder engagement, Web platform design, service management, political process reshaping, and evaluation and improvement. We review the existing literature and present a longitudinal case study: the Norwegian Demokratitorget (Democracy Square). We define key issues in each of the four areas, which need to be understood to design and manage a successful net-based deliberation forum. In a liberal democracy, the evolution of political agendas and formation of policy involves deliberation: serious consideration of political issues. Modern-day political participation is dependent on widespread deliberation supported by information and communication technologies, which also offer the potential to revitalize and transform citizen engagement in democracy. Although the majority of Web 2.0 systems enable these discourses to some extent, government institutions commission and manage specialized deliberation systems (information systems designed to support participative discourse) intended to promote citizen engagement. The most common examples of these are political discussion forums. Although usually considered trivial adaptations of well-known technologies, these types of deliberative systems are often unsuccessful, and present a distinct set of design and management challenges. In this article, the authors analyze the issues involved in establishing political deliberation systems under four headings: stakeholder engagement, Web platform design, service management, political process reshaping, and evaluation and improvement. We review the existing literature and present a longitudinal case study: the Norwegian Demokratitorget (Democracy Square). We define key issues in each of the four areas, which need to be understood to design and manage a successful net-based deliberation forum.']
['Roy, Manoj; Curry, Robin & Ellis, Geraint', 'Spatial allocation of material flow analysis in residential developments: a case study of Kildare County, Ireland', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09640568.2014.951115', 'Studies of urban metabolism provide important insights for environmental management of cities, but are not widely used in planning practice due to a mismatch of data scale and coverage. This paper introduces the Spatial Allocation of Material Flow Analysis (SAMFA) model as a potential decision support tool aimed as a contribution to overcome some of these difficulties and describes its pilot use at the county level in the Republic of Ireland. The results suggest that SAMFA is capable of identifying hotspots of higher material and energy use to support targeted planning initiatives, while its ability to visualise different policy scenarios supports more effective multi-stakeholder engagement. The paper evaluates this pilot use and sets out how this model can act as an analytical platform for the industrial ecology?spatial planning nexus. Studies of urban metabolism provide important insights for environmental management of cities, but are not widely used in planning practice due to a mismatch of data scale and coverage. This paper introduces the Spatial Allocation of Material Flow Analysis (SAMFA) model as a potential decision support tool aimed as a contribution to overcome some of these difficulties and describes its pilot use at the county level in the Republic of Ireland. The results suggest that SAMFA is capable of identifying hotspots of higher material and energy use to support targeted planning initiatives, while its ability to visualise different policy scenarios supports more effective multi-stakeholder engagement. The paper evaluates this pilot use and sets out how this model can act as an analytical platform for the industrial ecology?spatial planning nexus.']
['Schultz, Lisa; Guevara, Jos\xc3\xa9 Roberto; Ratnam, Samantha; Wierenga, Ani; Wyn, Johanna & Sowerby, Charlotte', 'Global Connections: \xe2\x80\x98A Tool for Active Citizenship\xe2\x80\x99', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09614520903220776', "As a result of globalisation and changing technologies, young people are increasingly required to engage with the broader world beyond their local and national communities. This raises significant questions about the ways and spaces in which young people will need to engage as active citizens, and the new tools and resources that young people will need to equip them for their futures. The Global Connections Program has been developed to address these identified needs. It is a youth-led global learning initiative which aims to provide an opportunity for connection and learning among young people in Australia and Indonesia. This article explores Plan's youth-led approach to global learning, with a focus on the implementation and evaluation findings of the Global Connections Program, as well as the challenges faced thus far. As a result of globalisation and changing technologies, young people are increasingly required to engage with the broader world beyond their local and national communities. This raises significant questions about the ways and spaces in which young people will need to engage as active citizens, and the new tools and resources that young people will need to equip them for their futures. The Global Connections Program has been developed to address these identified needs. It is a youth-led global learning initiative which aims to provide an opportunity for connection and learning among young people in Australia and Indonesia. This article explores Plan's youth-led approach to global learning, with a focus on the implementation and evaluation findings of the Global Connections Program, as well as the challenges faced thus far."]
['Scully, Patrick L. & Diebel, Alice', 'The essential and inherent democratic capacities of communities', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15575330.2015.1021363', 'Despite the rise of many new forms of public participation, citizens often find themselves on the sidelines of civic initiatives. Observing that nascent democratic capacities are an under-used resource for community development, this article explores how widely applied understandings of capacity building fail to recognize the democratic capacities of communities. By exploring notions of capacity that span the fields of community development and civic engagement, this discussion argues that both fields can improve their ability to address complex public problems by paying close attention to the inherent democratic capacities of a community?s citizens, organizations, and networks. It suggests a framework for recognizing and analyzing these democratic capacities. An overlapping ?democratic practices? framework is presented as a way to analyze how communities apply their democratic capacities. The article concludes with case studies from Cooperative Extension that illustrate how citizen-centered community development and civic engagement grounded in public deliberation and dialog can build on and strengthen the democratic capacities of communities. Despite the rise of many new forms of public participation, citizens often find themselves on the sidelines of civic initiatives. Observing that nascent democratic capacities are an under-used resource for community development, this article explores how widely applied understandings of capacity building fail to recognize the democratic capacities of communities. By exploring notions of capacity that span the fields of community development and civic engagement, this discussion argues that both fields can improve their ability to address complex public problems by paying close attention to the inherent democratic capacities of a community?s citizens, organizations, and networks. It suggests a framework for recognizing and analyzing these democratic capacities. An overlapping ?democratic practices? framework is presented as a way to analyze how communities apply their democratic capacities. The article concludes with case studies from Cooperative Extension that illustrate how citizen-centered community development and civic engagement grounded in public deliberation and dialog can build on and strengthen the democratic capacities of communities.']
['Seol, Dong-Hoon', 'The citizenship of foreign workers in South Korea', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13621025.2012.651408', "The inflow of migrant workers poses many challenges to an ethnically homogenous Korean society. They have different features with regard to citizenship. In this article, I analyze the citizenship of migrant workers in Korea from three dimensions ? immigration policies, access to long-term and permanent residency and national citizenship, and the rights of migrant workers. First, I analyze requirements for employment and residency as stipulated in the Departures and Arrivals Control Act and the problems of differential application to target groups. Second, I discuss regulations in the Departures and Arrivals Control Act and the Nationality Act concerning the length of stay and requirements and process of applying for long-term and permanent residency, or Korean nationality. Third, I go over the basic rights of migrant workers: (1) civil rights; (2) social rights such as the rights to engage in work, the three primary rights of labor, social welfare rights, and the right to education of children of migrant workers; and (3) political rights including residents' rights for local autonomy. I closely analyze the difference in citizenship according to visa status and try to pinpoint key social problems of today. I also reflect on the desirable direction of Korea's immigration policies. The inflow of migrant workers poses many challenges to an ethnically homogenous Korean society. They have different features with regard to citizenship. In this article, I analyze the citizenship of migrant workers in Korea from three dimensions ? immigration policies, access to long-term and permanent residency and national citizenship, and the rights of migrant workers. First, I analyze requirements for employment and residency as stipulated in the Departures and Arrivals Control Act and the problems of differential application to target groups. Second, I discuss regulations in the Departures and Arrivals Control Act and the Nationality Act concerning the length of stay and requirements and process of applying for long-term and permanent residency, or Korean nationality. Third, I go over the basic rights of migrant workers: (1) civil rights; (2) social rights such as the rights to engage in work, the three primary rights of labor, social welfare rights, and the right to education of children of migrant workers; and (3) political rights including residents' rights for local autonomy. I closely analyze the difference in citizenship according to visa status and try to pinpoint key social problems of today. I also reflect on the desirable direction of Korea's immigration policies."]
['Sextos, Anastasios G.', 'A paperless course on structural engineering programming: investing in educational technology in the times of the Greek financial recession', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03043797.2013.824413', 'This paper presents the structure of an undergraduate course entitled ?programming techniques and the use of specialised software in structural engineering? which is offered to the fifth (final) year students of the Civil Engineering Department of Aristotle University Thessaloniki in Greece. The aim of this course is to demonstrate the use of new information technologies in the field of structural engineering and to teach modern programming and finite element simulation techniques that the students can in turn apply in both research and everyday design of structures. The course also focuses on the physical interpretation of structural engineering problems, in a way that the students become familiar with the concept of computational tools without losing perspective from the engineering problem studied. For this purpose, a wide variety of structural engineering problems are studied in class, involving structural statics, dynamics, earthquake engineering, design of reinforced concrete and steel structures as well as data and information management. The main novelty of the course is that it is taught and examined solely in the computer laboratory ensuring that each student can accomplish the prescribed ?hands-on? training on a dedicated computer, strictly on a 1:1 student over hardware ratio. Significant effort has also been put so that modern educational techniques and tools are utilised to offer the course in an essentially paperless mode. This involves electronic educational material, video tutorials, student information in real time and exams given and assessed electronically through an ad hoc developed, personalised, electronic system. The positive feedback received from the students reveals that the concept of a paperless course is not only applicable in real academic conditions but is also a promising approach that significantly increases student productivity and engagement. The question, however, is whether such an investment in educational technology is indeed timely during economic recession, where the academic priorities are rapidly changing. In the light of this unfavourable and unstable financial environment, a critical overview of the strengths, the weaknesses, the opportunities and the threats of this effort is presented herein, hopefully contributing to the discussion on the future of higher education in the time of crisis. This paper presents the structure of an undergraduate course entitled ?programming techniques and the use of specialised software in structural engineering? which is offered to the fifth (final) year students of the Civil Engineering Department of Aristotle University Thessaloniki in Greece. The aim of this course is to demonstrate the use of new information technologies in the field of structural engineering and to teach modern programming and finite element simulation techniques that the students can in turn apply in both research and everyday design of structures. The course also focuses on the physical interpretation of structural engineering problems, in a way that the students become familiar with the concept of computational tools without losing perspective from the engineering problem studied. For this purpose, a wide variety of structural engineering problems are studied in class, involving structural statics, dynamics, earthquake engineering, design of reinforced concrete and steel structures as well as data and information management. The main novelty of the course is that it is taught and examined solely in the computer laboratory ensuring that each student can accomplish the prescribed ?hands-on? training on a dedicated computer, strictly on a 1:1 student over hardware ratio. Significant effort has also been put so that modern educational techniques and tools are utilised to offer the course in an essentially paperless mode. This involves electronic educational material, video tutorials, student information in real time and exams given and assessed electronically through an ad hoc developed, personalised, electronic system. The positive feedback received from the students reveals that the concept of a paperless course is not only applicable in real academic conditions but is also a promising approach that significantly increases student productivity and engagement. The question, however, is whether such an investment in educational technology is indeed timely during economic recession, where the academic priorities are rapidly changing. In the light of this unfavourable and unstable financial environment, a critical overview of the strengths, the weaknesses, the opportunities and the threats of this effort is presented herein, hopefully contributing to the discussion on the future of higher education in the time of crisis.']
['Shafer, Richard & Aregood, Richard', 'Protecting Journalists by Applying the Civic Journalism Model in Developing Countries: A Case Study of the Philippines', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01296612.2012.11689923', 'Civic journalism, the community-inclusive cooperative model that has faded in the United States, where it had first blossomed, has the potential to be re-purposed to provide security for journalists in areas where it can be dangerous to practise the traditional Western-objective model. The Philippines, where journalists in recent years have been killed at the highest rate in the world, provides an illustrative case study for this concept because of its Westernised, vigorous press and the violent insurgencies that have continued in some provincial areas. Recent experiments with civic journalism in the Philippines under corporate sponsorship suggest how adaptations of the model might help organise effective news reporting, supported by local citizens, to inform safer and more effective press practices in regions such as the island of Mindanao where journalists have been particularly endangered. Our discussion of experiments with civic journalism suggests that it might be more widely applied to organising popular support for journalists engaged in reporting on difficult topics that are important to resolving conflict and furthering development in underdeveloped and unstable regions. Civic journalism, the community-inclusive cooperative model that has faded in the United States, where it had first blossomed, has the potential to be re-purposed to provide security for journalists in areas where it can be dangerous to practise the traditional Western-objective model. The Philippines, where journalists in recent years have been killed at the highest rate in the world, provides an illustrative case study for this concept because of its Westernised, vigorous press and the violent insurgencies that have continued in some provincial areas. Recent experiments with civic journalism in the Philippines under corporate sponsorship suggest how adaptations of the model might help organise effective news reporting, supported by local citizens, to inform safer and more effective press practices in regions such as the island of Mindanao where journalists have been particularly endangered. Our discussion of experiments with civic journalism suggests that it might be more widely applied to organising popular support for journalists engaged in reporting on difficult topics that are important to resolving conflict and furthering development in underdeveloped and unstable regions.']
['Shumer, Robert; Lam, Carolina & Laabs, Bonnie', 'Ensuring good character and civic education: connecting through service learning', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02188791.2012.741768', 'Character and citizenship education are part of the vision of many countries, including Singapore. Ensuring they are implemented in academic environments, service learning has been shown to be a natural bridge between the two. Research has shown that service learning, when done well, produces outcomes related to character development and citizenship education. As a modern educational movement, its early founders described it as a pedagogy to engage individuals in service activities dictated by the community, whereby the learning applies academic subject matter to the service. It is also a philosophy where the service is developed in collaboration with the community, where the goal is empowering those most affected by social and economic challenges. It is often delivered through academic course connections, but is effectively developed through constructivist approaches to curriculum, where the community prescribed needs define the subjects required for study and service. Service learning and character education are mutually connected constructs where service learning becomes the vehicle for delivery of character development. Individuals learn good character by applying those character traits in social settings through service. Good learning is assured when the nature of the service and character are intertwined, and the knowledge and skills gained connect directly to the actions of the people involved. Character and citizenship education are part of the vision of many countries, including Singapore. Ensuring they are implemented in academic environments, service learning has been shown to be a natural bridge between the two. Research has shown that service learning, when done well, produces outcomes related to character development and citizenship education. As a modern educational movement, its early founders described it as a pedagogy to engage individuals in service activities dictated by the community, whereby the learning applies academic subject matter to the service. It is also a philosophy where the service is developed in collaboration with the community, where the goal is empowering those most affected by social and economic challenges. It is often delivered through academic course connections, but is effectively developed through constructivist approaches to curriculum, where the community prescribed needs define the subjects required for study and service. Service learning and character education are mutually connected constructs where service learning becomes the vehicle for delivery of character development. Individuals learn good character by applying those character traits in social settings through service. Good learning is assured when the nature of the service and character are intertwined, and the knowledge and skills gained connect directly to the actions of the people involved.']
['Thambiratnam, D P & Perera, N J', 'Protection of Structural Systems and Mechanisms from Catastrophic and Life-Threatening Failure Caused by Unforeseeable Events', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.7158/13287982.2012.11465101', 'AbstractStructural framing systems and mechanisms designed for normal use rarely possess adequate robustness to withstand the effects of large impacts, blasts and extreme earthquakes that have been experienced in recent times. Robustness is the property of systems that enables them to survive unforeseen or unusual circumstances (Knoll & Vogel, 2009). Queensland University of Technology with industry collaboration is engaged in a program of research that commenced 15 years ago to study the impact of such unforeseeable phenomena and investigate methods of improving robustness and safety with protective mechanisms embedded or designed in structural systems. This paper highlights some of the research pertaining to seismic protection of building structures, rollover protective structures and effects of vehicular impact and blast on key elements in structures that could propagate catastrophic and disproportionate collapse. AbstractStructural framing systems and mechanisms designed for normal use rarely possess adequate robustness to withstand the effects of large impacts, blasts and extreme earthquakes that have been experienced in recent times. Robustness is the property of systems that enables them to survive unforeseen or unusual circumstances (Knoll & Vogel, 2009). Queensland University of Technology with industry collaboration is engaged in a program of research that commenced 15 years ago to study the impact of such unforeseeable phenomena and investigate methods of improving robustness and safety with protective mechanisms embedded or designed in structural systems. This paper highlights some of the research pertaining to seismic protection of building structures, rollover protective structures and effects of vehicular impact and blast on key elements in structures that could propagate catastrophic and disproportionate collapse.']
['Tong, Jingrong & Zuo, Landong', 'Weibo communication and government legitimacy in China: a computer-assisted analysis of Weibo messages on two \xe2\x80\x98mass incidents\xe2\x80\x99\xe2\x80\xa0', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2013.839730', "This article, based on a computer-assisted analysis of Weibo communications about two recent ?mass incidents? in China, offers a model for understanding online communication's influence on government legitimacy. This study explores the discourse of Weibo discussions on social protests and what impacts this discourse may have on the legitimacy of Chinese government in the digital environment. The Weibo discourses on the two mass incidents suggest two modes of online communication: one-way communication, where local residents have taken the initiative and two-way communication, initiated by both local residents and national elites. Different themes the discourses have touched suggest different types and levels of impacts Weibo discussions have on government legitimacy. More precisely, the discourse in which there is a critique of the current national political system in China is more challenging to government legitimacy than the one in which there are only demands for local changes. The online discourse about the Haimen incident on Weibo even can be seen as reinforcing government legitimacy. Therefore, the impact of online communication on government legitimacy is relative and depends on specific cases. To understand the power of online communication requires us to analyse the nature of online discourses about specific cases and then examine them within external social and political contexts and by comparing them with one another. Contextual dynamics such as social problems and tensions can function as an indicator for understanding the type and level of impact of online communication on government legitimacy. This article, based on a computer-assisted analysis of Weibo communications about two recent ?mass incidents? in China, offers a model for understanding online communication's influence on government legitimacy. This study explores the discourse of Weibo discussions on social protests and what impacts this discourse may have on the legitimacy of Chinese government in the digital environment. The Weibo discourses on the two mass incidents suggest two modes of online communication: one-way communication, where local residents have taken the initiative and two-way communication, initiated by both local residents and national elites. Different themes the discourses have touched suggest different types and levels of impacts Weibo discussions have on government legitimacy. More precisely, the discourse in which there is a critique of the current national political system in China is more challenging to government legitimacy than the one in which there are only demands for local changes. The online discourse about the Haimen incident on Weibo even can be seen as reinforcing government legitimacy. Therefore, the impact of online communication on government legitimacy is relative and depends on specific cases. To understand the power of online communication requires us to analyse the nature of online discourses about specific cases and then examine them within external social and political contexts and by comparing them with one another. Contextual dynamics such as social problems and tensions can function as an indicator for understanding the type and level of impact of online communication on government legitimacy."]
['Turbine, Vikki', "Women's human rights in Russia: outmoded battlegrounds, or new sites of contentious politics?", 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21599165.2015.1064395', "This article draws on three pieces of qualitative research conducted with women in provincial Russia over the last 10 years. The first section analyses women's discussions of their everyday rights claims and their engagement in ?consentful? forms of contention. The second section uses the Pussy Riot case as an example of women's human rights activism coded as ?contentious?. Finally, the article highlights the blurred boundaries between contentious and consentful contention that can occur when women engage in online spaces. The article suggests a spectrum of contentious politics for women's rights claims that vary depending on the political opportunity structures available. This article draws on three pieces of qualitative research conducted with women in provincial Russia over the last 10 years. The first section analyses women's discussions of their everyday rights claims and their engagement in ?consentful? forms of contention. The second section uses the Pussy Riot case as an example of women's human rights activism coded as ?contentious?. Finally, the article highlights the blurred boundaries between contentious and consentful contention that can occur when women engage in online spaces. The article suggests a spectrum of contentious politics for women's rights claims that vary depending on the political opportunity structures available."]
['Way, Robert Michael', 'Engaging the culture of death with the Gospel of Life: \xe2\x80\x9cIntegrating the Catholic faith in the practice of law and medicine\xe2\x80\x9d', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1179/0024363913Z.00000000026', "AbstractThe lay Catholic, ordained, and religious today are faced with making legal and medical decisions that will affect their health care during a time of incapacity and eventually the final moments of their life. Often times the response to the need for sound legal and medical instructions is met by non-profit, pro-life organizations which provide legal forms such as powers of attorney. By and large, these documents are morally in line with Catholic Church teaching, but do very little for practical application of the law as it interfaces with medicine in the crucible of the emergency room and courtroom. Thus, the ?culture of death? which pervades both the professions of law and medicine, and which veils itself in euphemisms such as a ?patient's right to die,? creates pragmatic challenges to pre-printed legal documents which may vary from what are statutory in form for individual states. Thus, the promotion of ?living wills? is tantamount to the expression of a fear and human desire to escape suffering at all costs. Accordingly, when Catholic physicians are informed of the legal and moral obligations owed to their patients through various estate planning documents, and Catholic lawyers seek to provide an integrated approach to drafting legal documents which include various provisions grounded in Catholic bioethical teaching, documents such as ?living wills? and ?advanced directives to physicians? ultimately are seen as unnecessary. Thus, engaging the culture of death is best accomplished when both physician and attorney work in their respective fields of practice by discussing the morality of various bioethical decisions with their patients and clients without fear of legal reprisal or recrimination. AbstractThe lay Catholic, ordained, and religious today are faced with making legal and medical decisions that will affect their health care during a time of incapacity and eventually the final moments of their life. Often times the response to the need for sound legal and medical instructions is met by non-profit, pro-life organizations which provide legal forms such as powers of attorney. By and large, these documents are morally in line with Catholic Church teaching, but do very little for practical application of the law as it interfaces with medicine in the crucible of the emergency room and courtroom. Thus, the ?culture of death? which pervades both the professions of law and medicine, and which veils itself in euphemisms such as a ?patient's right to die,? creates pragmatic challenges to pre-printed legal documents which may vary from what are statutory in form for individual states. Thus, the promotion of ?living wills? is tantamount to the expression of a fear and human desire to escape suffering at all costs. Accordingly, when Catholic physicians are informed of the legal and moral obligations owed to their patients through various estate planning documents, and Catholic lawyers seek to provide an integrated approach to drafting legal documents which include various provisions grounded in Catholic bioethical teaching, documents such as ?living wills? and ?advanced directives to physicians? ultimately are seen as unnecessary. Thus, engaging the culture of death is best accomplished when both physician and attorney work in their respective fields of practice by discussing the morality of various bioethical decisions with their patients and clients without fear of legal reprisal or recrimination."]
['Wray-Lake, Laura & Sloper, Michelle A.', 'Investigating general and specific links from adolescents\xe2\x80\x99 perceptions of ecological assets to their civic actions', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10888691.2015.1114888', 'ABSTRACTCivic engagement is an important marker of thriving among adolescents, and more research is needed that clarifies the ecological assets (positive supports across settings) that foster youth civic engagement. Simultaneously modeling associations between multiple ecological assets and civic behaviors can provide a nuanced view of the way adolescents? ecological assets relate to distinct forms of civic engagement. To advance positive youth development theory, we used a bifactor modeling approach to examine general and specific ecological asset factors in relation to volunteering, conventional political, online political, and informal helping behaviors. In a large ethnically diverse sample of adolescents, the general ecological asset factor was positively associated with informal helping only. Classroom civic learning opportunities were positively associated with volunteering, conventional, and online political behaviors. Family political discussions were positively associated with conventional and online political behaviors. Our study suggests that civic engagement should be understood multidimensionally and that broad and specific ways of conceptualizing ecological assets have merit for understanding different types of youth civic engagement. ABSTRACTCivic engagement is an important marker of thriving among adolescents, and more research is needed that clarifies the ecological assets (positive supports across settings) that foster youth civic engagement. Simultaneously modeling associations between multiple ecological assets and civic behaviors can provide a nuanced view of the way adolescents? ecological assets relate to distinct forms of civic engagement. To advance positive youth development theory, we used a bifactor modeling approach to examine general and specific ecological asset factors in relation to volunteering, conventional political, online political, and informal helping behaviors. In a large ethnically diverse sample of adolescents, the general ecological asset factor was positively associated with informal helping only. Classroom civic learning opportunities were positively associated with volunteering, conventional, and online political behaviors. Family political discussions were positively associated with conventional and online political behaviors. Our study suggests that civic engagement should be understood multidimensionally and that broad and specific ways of conceptualizing ecological assets have merit for understanding different types of youth civic engagement.']
['Wright, Tracy Lauritzen', 'To Form a More Perfect Union National Civil Rights Museum', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1179/msi.2012.7.2.245', "AbstractLocated at the historic Lorraine Motel, the site of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s assassination in 1968, the National Civil Rights Museum is embarking on the first renovation of the permanent exhibitions in its 20-year history. The museum embraced a plan to engage the community in selecting the design team and in the design process. Through a series of public presentations, online and in-house surveys, forums, focus groups and community collecting events, the museum actively sought public input on this landmark project. Additionally, the museum set ambitious goals for the renovated exhibitions to challenge visitors to consider their personal role in the ongoing work to create a more perfect union. This article discusses the strategies used to build community interest and support for the capital project and inform the development of new interpretive methods that would create emotionally stirring and accessible yet intellectually challenging exhibitions in the first museum dedicated to the interpretation of the American civil rights movement. AbstractLocated at the historic Lorraine Motel, the site of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s assassination in 1968, the National Civil Rights Museum is embarking on the first renovation of the permanent exhibitions in its 20-year history. The museum embraced a plan to engage the community in selecting the design team and in the design process. Through a series of public presentations, online and in-house surveys, forums, focus groups and community collecting events, the museum actively sought public input on this landmark project. Additionally, the museum set ambitious goals for the renovated exhibitions to challenge visitors to consider their personal role in the ongoing work to create a more perfect union. This article discusses the strategies used to build community interest and support for the capital project and inform the development of new interpretive methods that would create emotionally stirring and accessible yet intellectually challenging exhibitions in the first museum dedicated to the interpretation of the American civil rights movement."]
['Xu, Jinghai & Nyerges, Timothy L.', 'A framework for user-generated geographic content acquisition in an age of crowdsourcing', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15230406.2016.1163644', 'ABSTRACTObtaining useful geographic information from the flood of user-generated geographic content (UGGC) data is of significant interest, but comes with challenges in an age of crowdsourcing. To address this issue, we adopt Maslow?s model of human needs to frame UGGC. Synthesizing across literature about volunteered geographic information and participatory GIS, we present a conceptual framework for characterizing collection of UGGC. The framework is composed of multiple dimensions and levels that include perspectives about motivations, participatory methods, and participants. We also articulate four levels of participants (stakeholders, core-engaged participants, semi-core-engaged participants, and engaged citizens) together with four work principles (communication, cooperation, coordination, and collaboration). Finally, a case study describes an example we use to evaluate the conceptual framework for its suitability in design of a UGGC system. We conclude by reflecting on how and why this framework offers a valuable perspective for deriving useful geographic information and offer future research directions. ABSTRACTObtaining useful geographic information from the flood of user-generated geographic content (UGGC) data is of significant interest, but comes with challenges in an age of crowdsourcing. To address this issue, we adopt Maslow?s model of human needs to frame UGGC. Synthesizing across literature about volunteered geographic information and participatory GIS, we present a conceptual framework for characterizing collection of UGGC. The framework is composed of multiple dimensions and levels that include perspectives about motivations, participatory methods, and participants. We also articulate four levels of participants (stakeholders, core-engaged participants, semi-core-engaged participants, and engaged citizens) together with four work principles (communication, cooperation, coordination, and collaboration). Finally, a case study describes an example we use to evaluate the conceptual framework for its suitability in design of a UGGC system. We conclude by reflecting on how and why this framework offers a valuable perspective for deriving useful geographic information and offer future research directions.']
['Yaghi, Abdulfattah', 'Contacting the Government among College Students', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15512160902816280', "The literature on political participation indicates that initiating contacts with the government is a vital form of civic engagement. Using this criterion to define participation, some researchers claim that students in general are apathetic about government and have poor efficacy about public affairs. The present study examines this assumption by exploring 18 factors that may influence college-student-initiated contact with federal, state, and local governments. A survey is administered to a random sample of 3500 students in five American states, namely Mississippi, Louisiana, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Georgia. Findings suggest that students are neither apathetic nor lacking efficacy as 64% of them have initiated at least one contact in a 12-month period and many have even contacted more than once. Using multiple regression reveals that 11 factors influence students' contacting, namely age, level at college, gender, needs, efficacy, political and civic affiliation, final recipient of services, goods and information, role of teachers, class discussions, campus environment, and availability of computers and the Internet. These findings and their implications are discussed in detail. The literature on political participation indicates that initiating contacts with the government is a vital form of civic engagement. Using this criterion to define participation, some researchers claim that students in general are apathetic about government and have poor efficacy about public affairs. The present study examines this assumption by exploring 18 factors that may influence college-student-initiated contact with federal, state, and local governments. A survey is administered to a random sample of 3500 students in five American states, namely Mississippi, Louisiana, Kentucky, Tennessee, and Georgia. Findings suggest that students are neither apathetic nor lacking efficacy as 64% of them have initiated at least one contact in a 12-month period and many have even contacted more than once. Using multiple regression reveals that 11 factors influence students' contacting, namely age, level at college, gender, needs, efficacy, political and civic affiliation, final recipient of services, goods and information, role of teachers, class discussions, campus environment, and availability of computers and the Internet. These findings and their implications are discussed in detail."]
['Agergaard, Sine; Michelsen la Cour, Annette & Gregersen, Martin Treumer', 'Politicisation of migrant leisure: a public and civil intervention involving organised sports', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02614367.2015.1009848', 'Using the perspective of governmentality this article aims to contribute to an understanding of the rationalities of specific political interventions, and the techniques used to monitor the leisure activities of particular target groups. This process of politicization is revealed here through a case study of an intervention that provides sporting activities in holiday periods for migrant children and adolescents living in so-called socially disadvantaged areas (DGI Playground). The analysis highlights the rationality that the leisure time of migrant youth is a potentially dangerous time slot and they must be engaged in organized sports; that is not only healthy but also civilizing and character forming leisure time activities. Techniques of monitoring the intervention are developed in a partnership between public institutions, regional umbrella organizations and local sports clubs leading to a need for employment of welfare professionals. Furthermore, the article illustrates that in the discursive construction of subject positions for the target group, migrant youth tend to become clients and recipients of public services rather than potential members of civil sports clubs. These findings are supported by ethnographic interviews with participants that show how youngsters who took part in DGI Playground were able to reflect the official aim of the programme and relate this to their desire to have fun and hang out with their friends. The article ends with a discussion of the further scope of applying critical theoretical perspectives to studies of migrants? leisure and sports activities. Using the perspective of governmentality this article aims to contribute to an understanding of the rationalities of specific political interventions, and the techniques used to monitor the leisure activities of particular target groups. This process of politicization is revealed here through a case study of an intervention that provides sporting activities in holiday periods for migrant children and adolescents living in so-called socially disadvantaged areas (DGI Playground). The analysis highlights the rationality that the leisure time of migrant youth is a potentially dangerous time slot and they must be engaged in organized sports; that is not only healthy but also civilizing and character forming leisure time activities. Techniques of monitoring the intervention are developed in a partnership between public institutions, regional umbrella organizations and local sports clubs leading to a need for employment of welfare professionals. Furthermore, the article illustrates that in the discursive construction of subject positions for the target group, migrant youth tend to become clients and recipients of public services rather than potential members of civil sports clubs. These findings are supported by ethnographic interviews with participants that show how youngsters who took part in DGI Playground were able to reflect the official aim of the programme and relate this to their desire to have fun and hang out with their friends. The article ends with a discussion of the further scope of applying critical theoretical perspectives to studies of migrants? leisure and sports activities.']
['Bambach, Lee Ann', 'Save us from \xe2\x80\x9cSave Our State\xe2\x80\x9d: anti-Sharia legislative efforts across the United States and their impact', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1528817X.2012.719286', "This article examines the impact of anti-Sharia legislation in the United States. It discusses what sharia law is generally, noting that particular applications and interpretations will vary depending upon jurisdiction and location, and looks specifically at the contexts in which sharia is observed in the US and considered by US courts. It examines two different types of anti-sharia legislation ? sharia-specific and facially neutral ? concluding that some of such laws and bills are unconstitutional, many are unwise because they can negatively impact businesses and the enforcement of US laws and judgments overseas, and all are unnecessary because the US legal system already possesses the necessary tools to block any use of sharia that would violate a party's constitutional right or violate public policy. The article concludes by noting that although anti-sharia legislation and the supporters of such legislation tend to equate sharia observance with dangerous and anti-American tendencies, the debate over such legislation is a prime example of how Muslims in the US are in fact actively engaging and working within the US political and legal systems. This article examines the impact of anti-Sharia legislation in the United States. It discusses what sharia law is generally, noting that particular applications and interpretations will vary depending upon jurisdiction and location, and looks specifically at the contexts in which sharia is observed in the US and considered by US courts. It examines two different types of anti-sharia legislation ? sharia-specific and facially neutral ? concluding that some of such laws and bills are unconstitutional, many are unwise because they can negatively impact businesses and the enforcement of US laws and judgments overseas, and all are unnecessary because the US legal system already possesses the necessary tools to block any use of sharia that would violate a party's constitutional right or violate public policy. The article concludes by noting that although anti-sharia legislation and the supporters of such legislation tend to equate sharia observance with dangerous and anti-American tendencies, the debate over such legislation is a prime example of how Muslims in the US are in fact actively engaging and working within the US political and legal systems."]
['Bell, Simon', 'From Sustainable Community to Big Society: 10 years learning with the Imagine approach', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10382046.2011.588509', 'Community is a key word in the current UK political vocabulary. As part of Big Society or as a sustainable means to develop social coherence, community has been an area of focus that has attained UK political party interest since 2003. In 1999, the Imagine method was first hinted at in the Earthscan book: ?Sustainability Indicators: measuring the immeasurable?. The approach allows citizens to learn about and self-evaluate their own sustainability by developing their own sustainability indicators in a manner which is participatory and evidence based. Communities could make use of the approach, not in an attempt to arrive at some ?absolute? value of sustainability but in striving to achieve a self-knowing sense of how sustainable they are, by their own measured indicators, and to use this evaluation in discourse with other agencies such as local and national government. The tone of Imagine is to empower citizens to own their own sustainability and to plan for sustainable futures. The method, developed for spatial and temporal sustainability assessment, has been trialled by countries in the Mediterranean region within Coastal Area Management Programmes (CAMPs). Building off this engagement with geographically and culturally diverse communities, the method has been supported by the Homes and Communities Agency (HCA) in the UK and developed into a teaching module that has been subsequently tested at undergraduate, postgraduate, continuing professional development (CPD), Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) and working with practitioners, as a hands-on Masterclass. The resulting course Creating Sustainable Communities (CSC) has now been introduced to 20 UK universities and has seen use by seven of them. This paper tracks the development of the Imagine method, explores its major elements and sets out the learning impacts it has had to date. Community is a key word in the current UK political vocabulary. As part of Big Society or as a sustainable means to develop social coherence, community has been an area of focus that has attained UK political party interest since 2003. In 1999, the Imagine method was first hinted at in the Earthscan book: ?Sustainability Indicators: measuring the immeasurable?. The approach allows citizens to learn about and self-evaluate their own sustainability by developing their own sustainability indicators in a manner which is participatory and evidence based. Communities could make use of the approach, not in an attempt to arrive at some ?absolute? value of sustainability but in striving to achieve a self-knowing sense of how sustainable they are, by their own measured indicators, and to use this evaluation in discourse with other agencies such as local and national government. The tone of Imagine is to empower citizens to own their own sustainability and to plan for sustainable futures. The method, developed for spatial and temporal sustainability assessment, has been trialled by countries in the Mediterranean region within Coastal Area Management Programmes (CAMPs). Building off this engagement with geographically and culturally diverse communities, the method has been supported by the Homes and Communities Agency (HCA) in the UK and developed into a teaching module that has been subsequently tested at undergraduate, postgraduate, continuing professional development (CPD), Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) and working with practitioners, as a hands-on Masterclass. The resulting course Creating Sustainable Communities (CSC) has now been introduced to 20 UK universities and has seen use by seven of them. This paper tracks the development of the Imagine method, explores its major elements and sets out the learning impacts it has had to date.']
['Borah, Porismita; Edgerly, Stephanie; Vraga, Emily K. & Shah, Dhavan V.', 'Hearing and Talking to the Other Side: Antecedents of Cross-Cutting Exposure in Adolescents', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15205436.2012.693568', 'Although scholars have enthusiastically examined the outcomes of cross-cutting exposure, few studies have explored its antecedents. Moreover, most studies have attended to adults. But it is during adolescence and early adulthood that citizens are most likely to be socialized into valuing and engaging in heterogeneous discussion. The present study employs a panel survey of American adolescents, age 12 to 17, to examine the predictive power of home, school, and media use variables on two outcomes related to valuing and talking to the other side. Our findings demonstrate that adolescents? attitudes toward valuing cross-cutting exposure as well as indulging in heterogeneous talk are consistently predicted by concept-oriented home environment and school curriculum. Among the media variables, cable news negatively and newspaper and online news positively influenced our outcome variables. Implications are discussed. Although scholars have enthusiastically examined the outcomes of cross-cutting exposure, few studies have explored its antecedents. Moreover, most studies have attended to adults. But it is during adolescence and early adulthood that citizens are most likely to be socialized into valuing and engaging in heterogeneous discussion. The present study employs a panel survey of American adolescents, age 12 to 17, to examine the predictive power of home, school, and media use variables on two outcomes related to valuing and talking to the other side. Our findings demonstrate that adolescents? attitudes toward valuing cross-cutting exposure as well as indulging in heterogeneous talk are consistently predicted by concept-oriented home environment and school curriculum. Among the media variables, cable news negatively and newspaper and online news positively influenced our outcome variables. Implications are discussed.']
['Casta\xc3\xb1eda, Ernesto', 'The Indignados of Spain: A Precedent to Occupy Wall Street', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14742837.2012.708830', 'Faced with an economic crisis, people took to the streets and camped in urban plazas throughout Spain in May 2011. Many people were successfully mobilized by a generalized sense of frustration, indignation and impotency in the face of coming elections where many citizens felt there were no real alternative economic and social policies offered, nor the possibility to vote for government programmes that would deal with the crisis in a way that prioritized the concerns of the population. In online discussions, concerned proactive participants called for ?A Real Democracy Now? that represented the concerns and priorities of regular Spanish citizens. In order to make their discontent visible, they called for people to camp and ?occupy? public spaces together in order to force politicians and elites to face the generalized discontent with the dire economic prospects. This paper builds on non-participant observation of the Indignados movement in Barcelona, Spain, conducted in the summer of 2011. It looks at the consolidation of the ?occupy? contentious performance to protest income inequality and economic policy. It argues that this movement is a direct precedent to the Occupy Wall Street movement in the USA. The 15 May movement showed that not only people in North Africa had reasons to take the streets and engage in collective action, but many citizens in the developed world also had reasons to take public squares and show their dissatisfaction with the economic and political status quo. Faced with an economic crisis, people took to the streets and camped in urban plazas throughout Spain in May 2011. Many people were successfully mobilized by a generalized sense of frustration, indignation and impotency in the face of coming elections where many citizens felt there were no real alternative economic and social policies offered, nor the possibility to vote for government programmes that would deal with the crisis in a way that prioritized the concerns of the population. In online discussions, concerned proactive participants called for ?A Real Democracy Now? that represented the concerns and priorities of regular Spanish citizens. In order to make their discontent visible, they called for people to camp and ?occupy? public spaces together in order to force politicians and elites to face the generalized discontent with the dire economic prospects. This paper builds on non-participant observation of the Indignados movement in Barcelona, Spain, conducted in the summer of 2011. It looks at the consolidation of the ?occupy? contentious performance to protest income inequality and economic policy. It argues that this movement is a direct precedent to the Occupy Wall Street movement in the USA. The 15 May movement showed that not only people in North Africa had reasons to take the streets and engage in collective action, but many citizens in the developed world also had reasons to take public squares and show their dissatisfaction with the economic and political status quo.']
['Chester, David K. & Duncan, Angus M.', 'Responding to disasters within the Christian tradition, with reference to volcanic eruptions and earthquakes', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.religion.2009.12.005', 'Abstract Particularly within Christianity and Judaism, theodicy is defined as any attempt to reconcile notions of a loving and just God with the reality of human suffering. The paper begins with a review of the ways in which the Hebrew and Christian scriptures (i.e. the Old and New Testaments) have interpreted disasters, particularly those caused by earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. Theological analysis of disasters did not end at the close of the biblical era, but has continued throughout Christian history and a number of so called Leibnizian philosophical models of theodicy have been developed. These are critically introduced. In the past few decades there has been a sea?change in both Christian attitudes towards disasters and in the ways in which losses are viewed by hazard researchers. From the perspective of the latter, an approach that envisions disasters as being primarily caused by extreme physical events has been largely replaced by one in which disasters are studied as social constructs, with a greater emphasis being placed on human vulnerability. Academic scholarship on the Leibnizian philosophical models continues, but greater prominence is now given to viewing disasters as events that represent human sinfulness which is manifested in national and international disparities in wealth, poverty, hazard preparedness and disaster losses. Finally, it is proposed that these new hazard analytical and theological perspectives are synergetic: allowing on the one hand churches, their members as well as their leaders, more fully to engage in disaster relief; whilst, on the other, enabling civil defence planners more effectively to use the often considerable human and financial resources of Christian communities and their charitable agencies Abstract Particularly within Christianity and Judaism, theodicy is defined as any attempt to reconcile notions of a loving and just God with the reality of human suffering. The paper begins with a review of the ways in which the Hebrew and Christian scriptures (i.e. the Old and New Testaments) have interpreted disasters, particularly those caused by earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. Theological analysis of disasters did not end at the close of the biblical era, but has continued throughout Christian history and a number of so called Leibnizian philosophical models of theodicy have been developed. These are critically introduced. In the past few decades there has been a sea?change in both Christian attitudes towards disasters and in the ways in which losses are viewed by hazard researchers. From the perspective of the latter, an approach that envisions disasters as being primarily caused by extreme physical events has been largely replaced by one in which disasters are studied as social constructs, with a greater emphasis being placed on human vulnerability. Academic scholarship on the Leibnizian philosophical models continues, but greater prominence is now given to viewing disasters as events that represent human sinfulness which is manifested in national and international disparities in wealth, poverty, hazard preparedness and disaster losses. Finally, it is proposed that these new hazard analytical and theological perspectives are synergetic: allowing on the one hand churches, their members as well as their leaders, more fully to engage in disaster relief; whilst, on the other, enabling civil defence planners more effectively to use the often considerable human and financial resources of Christian communities and their charitable agencies']
['Fernandes, Juliana; Giurcanu, Magda; Bowers, Kevin W. & Neely, Jeffrey C.', "The Writing on the Wall: A Content Analysis of College Students' Facebook Groups for the 2008 Presidential Election", 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15205436.2010.516865', 'This study looks at student Facebook groups supporting the 2008 presidential candidates, John McCain and Barack Obama, from largest land-grant universities in seven battleground states. The findings of a content analysis of wall posts show that students are using Facebook to facilitate dialog and civic political involvement. In opposition to pro-McCain groups, pro-Obama groups have wider time frame coverage and demonstrate substantively higher site activity. Political discussions related to the political civic process, policy issues, campaign information, candidate issues, and acquisition of campaign products dominate across groups and election seasons. An examination of the content of wall posts based on the four categories of the Michigan Model of voting behavior (partisanship, group affiliation, candidate image, and political/campaign issues) reveals that in the primary season, pro-Obama groups focus mostly on short-term topics (candidate image and campaign issues), whereas pro-McCain groups focus mostly on long-term topics (partisanship and group affiliation). The overall findings of this study suggest that youth online communities actively follow campaigns and post comments that foster the political dialog and civic engagement. This study looks at student Facebook groups supporting the 2008 presidential candidates, John McCain and Barack Obama, from largest land-grant universities in seven battleground states. The findings of a content analysis of wall posts show that students are using Facebook to facilitate dialog and civic political involvement. In opposition to pro-McCain groups, pro-Obama groups have wider time frame coverage and demonstrate substantively higher site activity. Political discussions related to the political civic process, policy issues, campaign information, candidate issues, and acquisition of campaign products dominate across groups and election seasons. An examination of the content of wall posts based on the four categories of the Michigan Model of voting behavior (partisanship, group affiliation, candidate image, and political/campaign issues) reveals that in the primary season, pro-Obama groups focus mostly on short-term topics (candidate image and campaign issues), whereas pro-McCain groups focus mostly on long-term topics (partisanship and group affiliation). The overall findings of this study suggest that youth online communities actively follow campaigns and post comments that foster the political dialog and civic engagement.']
["Group, The E\xe2\x80\x90Science Directors' Forum Strategy Working; Atkinson, Malcolm; Britton, David; Coveney, Peter; De Roure, David; Garnett, Ned; Geddes, Neil; Gurney, Robert; Haines, Keith; Hughes, Lorna; Ingram, David; Jeffreys, Paul; Lyon, Liz; Osborne, Ian; Perrott, Ron; Procter, Rob; Rusbridge, Chris; Trefethen, Anne & Watson, Paul", 'Century\xe2\x80\x90of\xe2\x80\x90Information Research (CIR): A Strategy for Research and Innovation in the Century of Information', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08109020802657479', 'Abstract More data will be produced in the next five years than in the entire history of human kind, a digital deluge that marks the beginning of the Century of Information. Through a year?long consultation with UK researchers, a coherent strategy has been developed, which will nurture Century?of?Information Research (CIR); it crystallises the ideas developed by the e?Science Directors? Forum Strategy Working Group. This paper is an abridged version of their latest report which can be found at: http://wikis.nesc.ac.uk/escienvoy/Century_of_Information_Research_Strategy which also records the consultation process and the affiliations of the authors. This document is derived from a paper presented at the Oxford e?Research Conference 2008 and takes into account suggestions made in the ensuing panel discussion. The goals of the CIR Strategy are to facilitate the growth of UK research and innovation that is data and computationally intensive and to develop a new culture of ?digital?systems judgement? that will equip research communities, businesses, government and society as a whole, with the skills essential to compete and prosper in the Century of Information. The CIR Strategy identifies a national requirement for a balanced programme of coordination, research, infrastructure, translational investment and education to empower UK researchers, industry, government and society. The Strategy is designed to deliver an environment which meets the needs of UK researchers so that they can respond agilely to challenges, can create knowledge and skills, and can lead new kinds of research. It is a call to action for those engaged in research, those providing data and computational facilities, those governing research and those shaping education policies. The ultimate aim is to help researchers strengthen the international competitiveness of the UK research base and increase its contribution to the economy. The objectives of the Strategy are to better enable UK researchers across all disciplines to contribute world?leading fundamental research; to accelerate the translation of research into practice; and to develop improved capabilities, facilities and context for research and innovation. It envisages a culture that is better able to grasp the opportunities provided by the growing wealth of digital information. Computing has, of course, already become a fundamental tool in all research disciplines. The UK e?Science programme (2001?06)?since emulated internationally?pioneered the invention and use of new research methods, and a new wave of innovations in digital?information technologies which have enabled them. The Strategy argues that the UK must now harness and leverage its own, plus the now global, investment in digital?information technology in order to spread the benefits as widely as possible in research, education, industry and government. Implementing the Strategy would deliver the computational infrastructure and its benefits as envisaged in the Science  provide easily used, pervasive and sustained e?Infrastructure for all research; enlarge the productive research community which exploits the new methods efficiently; generate capacity, propagate knowledge and develop skills via new curricula; and develop coordination mechanisms to improve the opportunities for interdisciplinary research and to make digital?infrastructure provision more cost effective. To gain the best value for money strategic coordination is required across a broad spectrum of stakeholders. A coherent strategy is essential in order to establish and sustain the UK as an international leader of well?curated national data assets and computational infrastructure, which is expertly used to shape policy, support decisions, empower researchers and to roll out the results to the wider benefit of society. The value of data as a foundation for wellbeing and a sustainable society must be appreciated; national resources must be more wisely directed to the collection, curation, discovery, widening access, analysis and exploitation of these data. Every researcher must be able to draw on skills, tools and computational resources to develop insights, test hypotheses and translate inventions into productive use, or to extract knowledge in support of governmental decision making. This foundation plus the skills developed will launch significant advances in research, in business, in professional practice and in government with many consequent benefits for UK citizens. The Strategy presented here addresses these complex and interlocking requirements. Abstract More data will be produced in the next five years than in the entire history of human kind, a digital deluge that marks the beginning of the Century of Information. Through a year?long consultation with UK researchers, a coherent strategy has been developed, which will nurture Century?of?Information Research (CIR); it crystallises the ideas developed by the e?Science Directors? Forum Strategy Working Group. This paper is an abridged version of their latest report which can be found at: http://wikis.nesc.ac.uk/escienvoy/Century_of_Information_Research_Strategy which also records the consultation process and the affiliations of the authors. This document is derived from a paper presented at the Oxford e?Research Conference 2008 and takes into account suggestions made in the ensuing panel discussion. The goals of the CIR Strategy are to facilitate the growth of UK research and innovation that is data and computationally intensive and to develop a new culture of ?digital?systems judgement? that will equip research communities, businesses, government and society as a whole, with the skills essential to compete and prosper in the Century of Information. The CIR Strategy identifies a national requirement for a balanced programme of coordination, research, infrastructure, translational investment and education to empower UK researchers, industry, government and society. The Strategy is designed to deliver an environment which meets the needs of UK researchers so that they can respond agilely to challenges, can create knowledge and skills, and can lead new kinds of research. It is a call to action for those engaged in research, those providing data and computational facilities, those governing research and those shaping education policies. The ultimate aim is to help researchers strengthen the international competitiveness of the UK research base and increase its contribution to the economy. The objectives of the Strategy are to better enable UK researchers across all disciplines to contribute world?leading fundamental research; to accelerate the translation of research into practice; and to develop improved capabilities, facilities and context for research and innovation. It envisages a culture that is better able to grasp the opportunities provided by the growing wealth of digital information. Computing has, of course, already become a fundamental tool in all research disciplines. The UK e?Science programme (2001?06)?since emulated internationally?pioneered the invention and use of new research methods, and a new wave of innovations in digital?information technologies which have enabled them. The Strategy argues that the UK must now harness and leverage its own, plus the now global, investment in digital?information technology in order to spread the benefits as widely as possible in research, education, industry and government. Implementing the Strategy would deliver the computational infrastructure and its benefits as envisaged in the Science  provide easily used, pervasive and sustained e?Infrastructure for all research; enlarge the productive research community which exploits the new methods efficiently; generate capacity, propagate knowledge and develop skills via new curricula; and develop coordination mechanisms to improve the opportunities for interdisciplinary research and to make digital?infrastructure provision more cost effective. To gain the best value for money strategic coordination is required across a broad spectrum of stakeholders. A coherent strategy is essential in order to establish and sustain the UK as an international leader of well?curated national data assets and computational infrastructure, which is expertly used to shape policy, support decisions, empower researchers and to roll out the results to the wider benefit of society. The value of data as a foundation for wellbeing and a sustainable society must be appreciated; national resources must be more wisely directed to the collection, curation, discovery, widening access, analysis and exploitation of these data. Every researcher must be able to draw on skills, tools and computational resources to develop insights, test hypotheses and translate inventions into productive use, or to extract knowledge in support of governmental decision making. This foundation plus the skills developed will launch significant advances in research, in business, in professional practice and in government with many consequent benefits for UK citizens. The Strategy presented here addresses these complex and interlocking requirements.']
['Hegarty, Joseph A.', 'Achieving Excellence by Means of Critical Reflection and Cultural Imagination in Culinary Arts and Gastronomy Education', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15428052.2011.580705', "This article aims to demonstrate that in raising the discipline of culinary arts and gastronomy beyond the craft/vocational level to under/postgraduate degree level, educators need to become critically reflective and knowledgeable (qualified) and enable students to learn how to learn, to become entrepreneurial and technological innovators, and to lead worthwhile lives as citizens, with a sense of mission and responsibility for the planet and the poor. It draws on a lifetime's study and experience in culinary arts education, transforming craft-based vocational programs into cognitive educational ones, preparing students to become more than cooking operatives, and introducing concepts that establish culinary arts and gastronomy as serious disciplines worthy of full academic status. Critical reflection allows practitioners to think critically about their practices. It allows educators to become critically reflexive practitioners. It facilitates culinary arts and gastronomy students and researchers. It allows them to become resource persons (consultants), offering guidelines and suggesting approaches to critical thinking and problem solving. Critical reflection engages culinary arts and gastronomy students and researchers in exploring the learning?teaching process in a manner that enhances the development of the discipline's knowledge base. It involves both the study of a situation with a view to improving the quality of the action within it and challenging the orthodoxy of traditional methods of education in the field. In short, it is an approach to excellence. In seeking to raise the academic level of culinary, gastronomy, and hospitality education to excellence, lecturers need to enable students to become involved in the assessment process by becoming critically reflective learners. Students must learn how to learn, to assess their own and others' learning through collaborative, peer, and self-assessment processes. This article aims to demonstrate that in raising the discipline of culinary arts and gastronomy beyond the craft/vocational level to under/postgraduate degree level, educators need to become critically reflective and knowledgeable (qualified) and enable students to learn how to learn, to become entrepreneurial and technological innovators, and to lead worthwhile lives as citizens, with a sense of mission and responsibility for the planet and the poor. It draws on a lifetime's study and experience in culinary arts education, transforming craft-based vocational programs into cognitive educational ones, preparing students to become more than cooking operatives, and introducing concepts that establish culinary arts and gastronomy as serious disciplines worthy of full academic status. Critical reflection allows practitioners to think critically about their practices. It allows educators to become critically reflexive practitioners. It facilitates culinary arts and gastronomy students and researchers. It allows them to become resource persons (consultants), offering guidelines and suggesting approaches to critical thinking and problem solving. Critical reflection engages culinary arts and gastronomy students and researchers in exploring the learning?teaching process in a manner that enhances the development of the discipline's knowledge base. It involves both the study of a situation with a view to improving the quality of the action within it and challenging the orthodoxy of traditional methods of education in the field. In short, it is an approach to excellence. In seeking to raise the academic level of culinary, gastronomy, and hospitality education to excellence, lecturers need to enable students to become involved in the assessment process by becoming critically reflective learners. Students must learn how to learn, to assess their own and others' learning through collaborative, peer, and self-assessment processes."]
['Hooghe, Marc & Oser, Jennifer', 'Trade union density and social expenditure: a longitudinal analysis of policy feedback effects in OECD countries, 1980-2010', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13501763.2015.1102952', 'ABSTRACTTwo causal mechanisms have been invoked to explain the positive correlation between union membership and social expenditure. Unions try to influence policy, but they are also more successful in mobilizing members in economic systems in which actors engage in co-ordinated strategic interaction. Applying insights from the policy feedback and comparative capitalism literatures, our analysis indicates that union density is a determinant of social expenditure. A strong policy feedback effect is also present whereby social expenditure has a positive effect on union density. We find a positive effect of union density on social expenditure in co-ordinated market economies, but not in liberal market economies. We discuss the implications of these findings for citizens? capacity to influence policy in varied contexts and for the ?varieties of capitalism? literature, and we close with some speculation about the implications of these findings in the current economic downturn. ABSTRACTTwo causal mechanisms have been invoked to explain the positive correlation between union membership and social expenditure. Unions try to influence policy, but they are also more successful in mobilizing members in economic systems in which actors engage in co-ordinated strategic interaction. Applying insights from the policy feedback and comparative capitalism literatures, our analysis indicates that union density is a determinant of social expenditure. A strong policy feedback effect is also present whereby social expenditure has a positive effect on union density. We find a positive effect of union density on social expenditure in co-ordinated market economies, but not in liberal market economies. We discuss the implications of these findings for citizens? capacity to influence policy in varied contexts and for the ?varieties of capitalism? literature, and we close with some speculation about the implications of these findings in the current economic downturn.']
['Ioannou, Soula; Kouta, Christiana; Constantinidou, Maria & Ellina, Panayiota', 'Sexuality education as a collective responsibility: a new health education curriculum in Cyprus', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14681811.2014.918031', 'The development of health promotion is typically viewed as a reaction against both the excessive responsibility placed on individuals concerning their health-related choices and the absence of recognition of environmental factors associated with personal decision making. What though does sexuality education mean from the perspective of health promotion? According to one approach, it implies the existence of a curriculum that recognises the environmental factors affecting sexuality and sexual behaviour. It also suggests a curriculum that aims to empower students to engage with risky sexual behaviour, not just as a personal issue but also as a social matter. The emphasis is placed not merely on developing personal knowledge and skills associated with sexuality and sexual behaviour but on enabling active citizens to protect themselves and their co-citizens from sexual risks and to promote healthy sexuality. This paper discusses such a health promotion perspective in relation to the sexuality education curriculum as recently developed in Cyprus. It demonstrates how a health promotion perspective in relation to sex education can be translated into the establishment of learning objectives, appropriate pedagogic methods and the development of school materials. The development of health promotion is typically viewed as a reaction against both the excessive responsibility placed on individuals concerning their health-related choices and the absence of recognition of environmental factors associated with personal decision making. What though does sexuality education mean from the perspective of health promotion? According to one approach, it implies the existence of a curriculum that recognises the environmental factors affecting sexuality and sexual behaviour. It also suggests a curriculum that aims to empower students to engage with risky sexual behaviour, not just as a personal issue but also as a social matter. The emphasis is placed not merely on developing personal knowledge and skills associated with sexuality and sexual behaviour but on enabling active citizens to protect themselves and their co-citizens from sexual risks and to promote healthy sexuality. This paper discusses such a health promotion perspective in relation to the sexuality education curriculum as recently developed in Cyprus. It demonstrates how a health promotion perspective in relation to sex education can be translated into the establishment of learning objectives, appropriate pedagogic methods and the development of school materials.']
['Jo\xc3\xa3o, Elsa & McLauchlan, Anna', "Would you do SEA if you didn't have to?- Reflections on acceptance or rejection of the SEA process", 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14615517.2014.889265', 'Strategic environmental assessment (SEA) is undertaken in more than 60 countries worldwide. Support to the SEA process can range from formal legal requirements to voluntary ?ad hoc? approaches. In the cases where SEA is legally required, such as in Europe where the SEA Directive sets a framework for SEA legislation in 28 countries, practitioners may engage with SEA but in a reluctant way. This paper reports on a unique survey of 203 key people responsible for implementing the SEA legislative requirement in Scotland. The majority (53%) of the 187 practitioners who answered the hypothetical question ?If SEA was not compulsory, would you do it?? said ?Yes?. However, results suggest that the responses were much nuanced. Practitioners were asked to explicate their reasoning and, irrespective of whether the answer was ?yes? or ?no?, common themes were evident in accompanying remarks. This paper enables reflection on reasons for acceptance or rejection of the SEA process by discussing: the perception that a similar process to SEA is already being done, the problem with lack of resources, the call for a ?leaner process? and the difficulties of undertaking SEA when conditions are already determined at a higher ?tier?. Strategic environmental assessment (SEA) is undertaken in more than 60 countries worldwide. Support to the SEA process can range from formal legal requirements to voluntary ?ad hoc? approaches. In the cases where SEA is legally required, such as in Europe where the SEA Directive sets a framework for SEA legislation in 28 countries, practitioners may engage with SEA but in a reluctant way. This paper reports on a unique survey of 203 key people responsible for implementing the SEA legislative requirement in Scotland. The majority (53%) of the 187 practitioners who answered the hypothetical question ?If SEA was not compulsory, would you do it?? said ?Yes?. However, results suggest that the responses were much nuanced. Practitioners were asked to explicate their reasoning and, irrespective of whether the answer was ?yes? or ?no?, common themes were evident in accompanying remarks. This paper enables reflection on reasons for acceptance or rejection of the SEA process by discussing: the perception that a similar process to SEA is already being done, the problem with lack of resources, the call for a ?leaner process? and the difficulties of undertaking SEA when conditions are already determined at a higher ?tier?.']
['Kobayashi, Tetsuro & Boase, Jeffrey', 'No Such Effect? The Implications of Measurement Error in Self-Report Measures of Mobile Communication Use', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19312458.2012.679243', 'Research on the social and psychological effects of mobile phone communication primarily is conducted using self-report measures of use. However, recent studies have suggested such measures of mobile phone communication use contain a significant amount of measurement error. This study compares the frequency of mobile phone use measured by self-report questions with error-free log data automatically collected through an Android smartphone application. Using data from 310 Android phone users in Japan, we investigate the extent to which nonrandom measurement error exists in self-report responses to questions about mobile phone use and predictors of this error. Our analysis shows that users generally overreport their frequency of mobile communication and that overestimation is better predicted by proxy measures of social activity than demographic variables. We further show an example of how overreporting can result in an overestimation of the effects of mediated communication on civic engagement. Finally, the value of behavioral log data in mediated communication research is discussed. Research on the social and psychological effects of mobile phone communication primarily is conducted using self-report measures of use. However, recent studies have suggested such measures of mobile phone communication use contain a significant amount of measurement error. This study compares the frequency of mobile phone use measured by self-report questions with error-free log data automatically collected through an Android smartphone application. Using data from 310 Android phone users in Japan, we investigate the extent to which nonrandom measurement error exists in self-report responses to questions about mobile phone use and predictors of this error. Our analysis shows that users generally overreport their frequency of mobile communication and that overestimation is better predicted by proxy measures of social activity than demographic variables. We further show an example of how overreporting can result in an overestimation of the effects of mediated communication on civic engagement. Finally, the value of behavioral log data in mediated communication research is discussed.']
['Li, Jun & Wang, Hongbo', 'Home Ownership and Political Participation in Urban China', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.2753/CSA2162-0555440403', "This paper examines the impact of private home ownership on the tendency to engage in neighborhood-level politics among urban Chinese citizens. We focus on voting in neighborhood Residents' Committee elections as well as local legislative elections, highlighting the role of the neighborhood type on voting. Our analysis of the 2005 China General Social Survey data reveals that homeowners are more likely than nonowners to vote in both elections, lending support to a conservatizing effect of private home ownership. However, this effect seems to exist only in neighborhoods consisting mainly of commercial housing units as opposed to previously state-owned housing. The implications of these findings for China's political future are discussed. This paper examines the impact of private home ownership on the tendency to engage in neighborhood-level politics among urban Chinese citizens. We focus on voting in neighborhood Residents' Committee elections as well as local legislative elections, highlighting the role of the neighborhood type on voting. Our analysis of the 2005 China General Social Survey data reveals that homeowners are more likely than nonowners to vote in both elections, lending support to a conservatizing effect of private home ownership. However, this effect seems to exist only in neighborhoods consisting mainly of commercial housing units as opposed to previously state-owned housing. The implications of these findings for China's political future are discussed."]
['Lohwater, Tiffany', 'Science in the Obama Administration', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1179/msi.2009.4.1.15', 'AbstractPresident Obama has stated his intent to reclaim science as a political and social necessity, and has backed words with action: highlighting scientific issues that impact all of us, appointing prominent scientists to his administration, and using public policy and funding to further scientific studies. These and similar initiatives may provide museums and science educators with increasing opportunities to facilitate meaningful dialogue about science and technology-related issues. The socially sensitive nature of many of these issues and the need for public engagement require public programs to move beyond education to discussion. Centers of informal learning are especially apt institutions to meet these needs and to empower society around science. Science centers and museums have begun to encourage citizens to participate actively in dialogues and debates; and as science blossoms at all levels of U.S. society, this role should only grow. AbstractPresident Obama has stated his intent to reclaim science as a political and social necessity, and has backed words with action: highlighting scientific issues that impact all of us, appointing prominent scientists to his administration, and using public policy and funding to further scientific studies. These and similar initiatives may provide museums and science educators with increasing opportunities to facilitate meaningful dialogue about science and technology-related issues. The socially sensitive nature of many of these issues and the need for public engagement require public programs to move beyond education to discussion. Centers of informal learning are especially apt institutions to meet these needs and to empower society around science. Science centers and museums have begun to encourage citizens to participate actively in dialogues and debates; and as science blossoms at all levels of U.S. society, this role should only grow.']
['Ludvig, Kjerstin; Stenberg, Ann-Charlotte & Gluch, Pernilla', 'The value of communicative skills for developing an energy strategy', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09613218.2013.800735', 'A case study is presented of how a public-sector client organization engaged with a political directive on energy efficiency in buildings. The value of communication skills of built environment professionals is explored during a strategic change process. An interpretative approach is used to study the organizational discussions and interactions between mainly a senior engineer (an energy expert), the management team and officials. It demonstrates how the political directive led to an initially ambiguous energy target, but was successfully framed, contextualized and anchored within the organization. This change process was shaped by key actors? ability to influence others. Use of discursive competence is important for explaining what stakeholders may gain from the changes needed to meet the energy target. The focus on the role of a senior engineer (middle management rather than top management) provides a novel perspective on how strategies develop and are adopted in organizations. A case study is presented of how a public-sector client organization engaged with a political directive on energy efficiency in buildings. The value of communication skills of built environment professionals is explored during a strategic change process. An interpretative approach is used to study the organizational discussions and interactions between mainly a senior engineer (an energy expert), the management team and officials. It demonstrates how the political directive led to an initially ambiguous energy target, but was successfully framed, contextualized and anchored within the organization. This change process was shaped by key actors? ability to influence others. Use of discursive competence is important for explaining what stakeholders may gain from the changes needed to meet the energy target. The focus on the role of a senior engineer (middle management rather than top management) provides a novel perspective on how strategies develop and are adopted in organizations.']
['McElduff, Linda; Peel, Deborah; Ritchie, Heather & Lloyd, Michael Gregory', 'The Octagon Values Model: community resilience and coastal regeneration', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21650020.2015.1124735', 'AbstractThis paper considers efforts to build community resilience through bottom-up responses to socioeconomic and environmental change in coastal communities on the island of Ireland. The discussion adds to a growing body of research which suggests that regeneration initiatives which do not consider a community?s resilience to change will fail to catalyse the changes needed to put that place on a more sustainable trajectory. The Octagon Values Model is presented as a heuristic device for exploring this potentially complimentary and co-influencing relationship between regeneration and resilience building. When applied to two case studies of coastal Transition Towns, the Model illustrates how, in practical terms, resilience may be used to tap into personal concerns to mobilise civil engagement in specific local regeneration initiatives. The discussion highlights some of the perennial practical obstacles confronting voluntary-based, community-level activities which raise questions for the generation of proactive community resilience responses and modes of governance. In capturing environmental, economic, social and governance value domains, the Octagon Values Model illustrates that reconciling values and resource use is critical to both regeneration and resilience ambitions. AbstractThis paper considers efforts to build community resilience through bottom-up responses to socioeconomic and environmental change in coastal communities on the island of Ireland. The discussion adds to a growing body of research which suggests that regeneration initiatives which do not consider a community?s resilience to change will fail to catalyse the changes needed to put that place on a more sustainable trajectory. The Octagon Values Model is presented as a heuristic device for exploring this potentially complimentary and co-influencing relationship between regeneration and resilience building. When applied to two case studies of coastal Transition Towns, the Model illustrates how, in practical terms, resilience may be used to tap into personal concerns to mobilise civil engagement in specific local regeneration initiatives. The discussion highlights some of the perennial practical obstacles confronting voluntary-based, community-level activities which raise questions for the generation of proactive community resilience responses and modes of governance. In capturing environmental, economic, social and governance value domains, the Octagon Values Model illustrates that reconciling values and resource use is critical to both regeneration and resilience ambitions.']
['Naser-Najjab, Nadia', 'Palestinian youth and the Arab Spring. Learning to think critically: a case study', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17550912.2012.672000', 'The subject of this paper is a case study based on evidence gathered informally through delivery of a course at Birzeit University entitled ?Modern and Contemporary European Civilization? and from end-of-semester evaluations that asked students to reflect on the impact of the course on their lives. The author is, naturally, aware of the limitation of the methodology used in this study, and does not claim that its findings can be generalized authoritatively to a wider group of people in the Arab world. What is clear, however, if one considers reviews of internet blogs and media programme debates, is that extrapolations from this evidence have wider reference, revealing commonalities and similarities between Palestinians living in the Occupied Territories and Arab youth involved in the Arab Spring on the subject of political reform. The discussions engaged in by my students actually parallel the debates generated by traditionalists and secularists in post-revolution Egypt and Tunisia. These debates revolve around what it means to live in a civil, democratic state that grants social justice and freedoms, and crucially, at present led by scholars and politicians, address the possibility of reconciling the concept of modernity with Islam and the legislative framework of Islamic law (shar??ah). It could be argued that the data collected are specific to this one case study, since Palestinians living under Israeli occupation form a unique group in the Arab world and probably are more concerned with basic issues of daily life and more sensitive to Western concepts of modernity. The significance of this data is, however, that gathered during the Arab Spring, they were based on reactions to material covered in a class which related to issues raised by the Arab revolutions, such as democracy, liberalism and revolution. Furthermore, these tentative findings suggest that more research is needed into issues such as the role of education, gender, tolerance and the reconciliation of Islam with modernity ? areas of interest which are of particular importance at a time when Islamic groups are winning elections and debates on concepts of authority, democracy and liberalism occupy the foreground of media programmes in countries such as Egypt and Tunisia. The subject of this paper is a case study based on evidence gathered informally through delivery of a course at Birzeit University entitled ?Modern and Contemporary European Civilization? and from end-of-semester evaluations that asked students to reflect on the impact of the course on their lives. The author is, naturally, aware of the limitation of the methodology used in this study, and does not claim that its findings can be generalized authoritatively to a wider group of people in the Arab world. What is clear, however, if one considers reviews of internet blogs and media programme debates, is that extrapolations from this evidence have wider reference, revealing commonalities and similarities between Palestinians living in the Occupied Territories and Arab youth involved in the Arab Spring on the subject of political reform. The discussions engaged in by my students actually parallel the debates generated by traditionalists and secularists in post-revolution Egypt and Tunisia. These debates revolve around what it means to live in a civil, democratic state that grants social justice and freedoms, and crucially, at present led by scholars and politicians, address the possibility of reconciling the concept of modernity with Islam and the legislative framework of Islamic law (shar??ah). It could be argued that the data collected are specific to this one case study, since Palestinians living under Israeli occupation form a unique group in the Arab world and probably are more concerned with basic issues of daily life and more sensitive to Western concepts of modernity. The significance of this data is, however, that gathered during the Arab Spring, they were based on reactions to material covered in a class which related to issues raised by the Arab revolutions, such as democracy, liberalism and revolution. Furthermore, these tentative findings suggest that more research is needed into issues such as the role of education, gender, tolerance and the reconciliation of Islam with modernity ? areas of interest which are of particular importance at a time when Islamic groups are winning elections and debates on concepts of authority, democracy and liberalism occupy the foreground of media programmes in countries such as Egypt and Tunisia.']
['Ness, Jennifer & Williams, Peter W.', 'Dialogue Management Factors: A 2010 Vancouver Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games Case', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15313220802634166', "ABSTRACT Dialogue is a process of inquiry and learning that is based on openness, listening, developing meaning, and sharing knowledge through conversation. It is a collaborative approach to discussion that seeks to build awareness, challenge assumptions, and reach deeper understandings of issues. From a pedagogical perspective, it has the potential to be a useful alternative to more traditional teaching methods?especially with respect to helping students develop their communication, critical thinking, and analytical skills. While the importance of employing various dialogic management principles in various applied dispute resolution settings is well documented in the literature, little empirical evidence concerning the relative worth of such factors in teaching environments exists. This is especially the case in tourism and hospitality teaching contexts. This article identifies the perceived worth of these factors in shaping dialogues tied to the conflicted and complex topic of hallmark event management. It uses the perspectives of university students participating in a unique ?Semester in Dialogue? program focusing on Vancouver's forthcoming 2010 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games to measure the value of these factors. The findings suggest that (a) specific management practices related to organizing, planning, and moderating dialogues can create useful learning opportunities for students and other civil society members and (b) well managed dialogues are effective teaching vehicles not only for exploring complex tourism management issues but also for engaging students in discussions that push participants from firmly held positions to new territories of shared learning and mutual understanding. ABSTRACT Dialogue is a process of inquiry and learning that is based on openness, listening, developing meaning, and sharing knowledge through conversation. It is a collaborative approach to discussion that seeks to build awareness, challenge assumptions, and reach deeper understandings of issues. From a pedagogical perspective, it has the potential to be a useful alternative to more traditional teaching methods?especially with respect to helping students develop their communication, critical thinking, and analytical skills. While the importance of employing various dialogic management principles in various applied dispute resolution settings is well documented in the literature, little empirical evidence concerning the relative worth of such factors in teaching environments exists. This is especially the case in tourism and hospitality teaching contexts. This article identifies the perceived worth of these factors in shaping dialogues tied to the conflicted and complex topic of hallmark event management. It uses the perspectives of university students participating in a unique ?Semester in Dialogue? program focusing on Vancouver's forthcoming 2010 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games to measure the value of these factors. The findings suggest that (a) specific management practices related to organizing, planning, and moderating dialogues can create useful learning opportunities for students and other civil society members and (b) well managed dialogues are effective teaching vehicles not only for exploring complex tourism management issues but also for engaging students in discussions that push participants from firmly held positions to new territories of shared learning and mutual understanding."]
['Nieuwelink, Hessel; Dekker, Paul; Geijsel, Femke & ten Dam, Geert', '\xe2\x80\x98Democracy always comes first\xe2\x80\x99: adolescents\xe2\x80\x99 views on decision-making in everyday life and political democracy', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/13676261.2015.1136053', 'ABSTRACTResearch shows adolescents to be positively oriented towards democracy, but little is known about what it actually means to them and what their views are on decision-making in both everyday situations and political democracy. To gain insight into these aspects of adolescents? democratic views, we have interviewed 40 Dutch adolescents from second grade of different types of high school. Potential conflict between various democratic principles prevalent in everyday life situations was discussed and compared to how they view decision-making in political democracy. The results of our qualitative study showed that adolescents? views on issues concerning collective decision-making in everyday situations are quite rich and reflect different models of democracy (majoritarian, consensual, and deliberative). Moreover, how adolescents deal with tensions between democratic principles in everyday life situations varies. While some adolescents combine several principles (for instance, majority rule as a last resort after trying to find broader consensus), other adolescents tend to strictly focus on only one of these principles. Adolescents? views on political democracy, however, are rather limited and one-dimensional. Those adolescents who seemed to have a more explicit picture of political democracy often preferred a strict focus on majority rule, neglecting minority interests. ABSTRACTResearch shows adolescents to be positively oriented towards democracy, but little is known about what it actually means to them and what their views are on decision-making in both everyday situations and political democracy. To gain insight into these aspects of adolescents? democratic views, we have interviewed 40 Dutch adolescents from second grade of different types of high school. Potential conflict between various democratic principles prevalent in everyday life situations was discussed and compared to how they view decision-making in political democracy. The results of our qualitative study showed that adolescents? views on issues concerning collective decision-making in everyday situations are quite rich and reflect different models of democracy (majoritarian, consensual, and deliberative). Moreover, how adolescents deal with tensions between democratic principles in everyday life situations varies. While some adolescents combine several principles (for instance, majority rule as a last resort after trying to find broader consensus), other adolescents tend to strictly focus on only one of these principles. Adolescents? views on political democracy, however, are rather limited and one-dimensional. Those adolescents who seemed to have a more explicit picture of political democracy often preferred a strict focus on majority rule, neglecting minority interests.']
["O'Donnell, Penny", 'Journalism, change and listening practices', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/10304310903015720', "This paper develops a theoretical account of listening as the ?anchoring practice? for change in all types of contemporary journalism. It contests the technological determinism implied in claims that citizen journalism will ?naturally? help us to listen. Instead, the paper makes the case for theorizing media as practice, attending to the practical and symbolic dimensions of the work needed to redistribute communicative power, and recognizing editorial vision, communicative expertise and financial resources as decisive factors in enabling ?everyday people? to speak, listen and be heard in the media. Three examples of media practices anchored in new approaches to listening are discussed: purposeful cross-cultural communication in SBS Radio, GetUp!'s strategic use of television advertising to achieve a public hearing for dissent, and the bridgeblogging activities of Global Voices that facilitate intercultural dialogue between strangers. Helping people to listen to and hear unfamiliar voices, break silences, and establish meaningful dialogue across difference and disparity can be difficult and costly work. Approaching media as practice provides a productive way of analysing not only the complex range of aural experiences, political interventions, and journalistic activities that emerge when we ask what people are doing in relation to listening, but also the rationales they offer for the turn to listening in journalism and media practice. This paper develops a theoretical account of listening as the ?anchoring practice? for change in all types of contemporary journalism. It contests the technological determinism implied in claims that citizen journalism will ?naturally? help us to listen. Instead, the paper makes the case for theorizing media as practice, attending to the practical and symbolic dimensions of the work needed to redistribute communicative power, and recognizing editorial vision, communicative expertise and financial resources as decisive factors in enabling ?everyday people? to speak, listen and be heard in the media. Three examples of media practices anchored in new approaches to listening are discussed: purposeful cross-cultural communication in SBS Radio, GetUp!'s strategic use of television advertising to achieve a public hearing for dissent, and the bridgeblogging activities of Global Voices that facilitate intercultural dialogue between strangers. Helping people to listen to and hear unfamiliar voices, break silences, and establish meaningful dialogue across difference and disparity can be difficult and costly work. Approaching media as practice provides a productive way of analysing not only the complex range of aural experiences, political interventions, and journalistic activities that emerge when we ask what people are doing in relation to listening, but also the rationales they offer for the turn to listening in journalism and media practice."]
["O'Donnell, Penny; Lloyd, Justine & Dreher, Tanja", 'Listening, pathbuilding and continuations: A research agenda for the analysis of listening', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/10304310903056252', "This introductory paper posits ?listening? as a rubric for reframing contemporary media theory and practice. We propose moving beyond questions of voice, speaking and representation to focus on often-ignored questions of listening as the ?other side? of communication. This article sets out the ways in which it may be possible to address the neglected question of listening, not in isolation but rather, following Susan Bickford's notion of ?pathbuilding?, through explorations of speaking and listening, voice and hearing, logos and interpretation/deconstruction. The article argues for more receptive forms of public discourse and media practice, while seeking to place the recent problematization of listening in a critical framework. Through a survey of theorizations of listening and explication of their research agenda, the authors consider listening in relation to conflict and inequality in diverse practices of citizenship. A central aim is to push discussion of listening practices beyond individual, personal, and private forms of discourse and to identify a spectrum of listening practices that complicate the speaking/listening binary. This introductory paper posits ?listening? as a rubric for reframing contemporary media theory and practice. We propose moving beyond questions of voice, speaking and representation to focus on often-ignored questions of listening as the ?other side? of communication. This article sets out the ways in which it may be possible to address the neglected question of listening, not in isolation but rather, following Susan Bickford's notion of ?pathbuilding?, through explorations of speaking and listening, voice and hearing, logos and interpretation/deconstruction. The article argues for more receptive forms of public discourse and media practice, while seeking to place the recent problematization of listening in a critical framework. Through a survey of theorizations of listening and explication of their research agenda, the authors consider listening in relation to conflict and inequality in diverse practices of citizenship. A central aim is to push discussion of listening practices beyond individual, personal, and private forms of discourse and to identify a spectrum of listening practices that complicate the speaking/listening binary."]
['Ojha, Hemant R.; Khatri, Dil B.; Shrestha, Krishna K.; Bhattarai, Basundhara; Baral, Jagadish C.; Basnett, Bimbika Sijapati; Goutam, Keshab; Sunam, Ramesh; Banjade, Mani R.; Jana, Sudeep; Bushley, Bryan; Dhungana, Sindhu Prasad & Paudel, Dinesh', "Can Evidence and Voice Influence Policy? A Critical Assessment of Nepal's Forestry Sector Strategy, 2014", 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08941920.2015.1122851', "This article examines Nepal's recently prepared Forestry Sector Strategy (FSS) (as of 2014) in terms of the use of scientific evidence and the quality of stakeholder participation. By reviewing the content and analyzing the context of its development during 2012?2014, we found that the transitional politics and overt influence of international development agencies dominated the process and content of the FSS. Although the FSS was developed through a significant stakeholder engagement, there was limited use of the available scientific evidence. The FSS was narrowly conceived as a deliverable of supporting aid programs, with limited demand for a politically meaningful policy processes. While civil society groups were consulted, they largely failed to present an independent voice due to their dependence on funding agencies. Our assessment calls for rethinking policy development in a way that facilitates assertive and independent participation by a range of actors and make better use of the available research. This article examines Nepal's recently prepared Forestry Sector Strategy (FSS) (as of 2014) in terms of the use of scientific evidence and the quality of stakeholder participation. By reviewing the content and analyzing the context of its development during 2012?2014, we found that the transitional politics and overt influence of international development agencies dominated the process and content of the FSS. Although the FSS was developed through a significant stakeholder engagement, there was limited use of the available scientific evidence. The FSS was narrowly conceived as a deliverable of supporting aid programs, with limited demand for a politically meaningful policy processes. While civil society groups were consulted, they largely failed to present an independent voice due to their dependence on funding agencies. Our assessment calls for rethinking policy development in a way that facilitates assertive and independent participation by a range of actors and make better use of the available research."]
['Reed, Pam & Butler, Tamara', 'Flipping the Script: When Service-Learning Recipients Become Service-Learning Givers', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00405841.2015.977663', "Urban education is a complex system that is often shrouded in stereotypes, labels, and barriers. Service-learning is well-entrenched in suburban institutions, but is a fledgling or grassroots organization in the urban education community. Often, suburban service-learning initiatives have taken the tone of community service in that it is often directed (albeit often inadvertently) at lower socio-economic families (e.g., to help the homeless, fill the food banks for the hungry, participate in clothing drives). Such initiatives leave some urban students feeling disenfranchised, powerless, and dependent. However, critical service-learning in urban schools can provide a connection to the community, as well as a sense of empowerment, confidence, and intrinsic motivation (Mitchell, 2007). When urban students see themselves as vital, powerful participants in giving back instead of being given to, they become critical partners, young leaders, and civically engaged citizens. Therefore, in this article, Pam, a middle school educator, and Tamara, a service-learning partner, examine how a teacher can institute critical service-learning programs in an urban classroom. By highlighting a teacher's intrinsic and extrinsic shifts, practical applications, and students' collaborations and reflections, this article illustrates how to move to critical service-learning in urban contexts. This examination has implications for how specific critical service-learning components can help teachers work with students to move toward socio-emotional growth. Urban education is a complex system that is often shrouded in stereotypes, labels, and barriers. Service-learning is well-entrenched in suburban institutions, but is a fledgling or grassroots organization in the urban education community. Often, suburban service-learning initiatives have taken the tone of community service in that it is often directed (albeit often inadvertently) at lower socio-economic families (e.g., to help the homeless, fill the food banks for the hungry, participate in clothing drives). Such initiatives leave some urban students feeling disenfranchised, powerless, and dependent. However, critical service-learning in urban schools can provide a connection to the community, as well as a sense of empowerment, confidence, and intrinsic motivation (Mitchell, 2007). When urban students see themselves as vital, powerful participants in giving back instead of being given to, they become critical partners, young leaders, and civically engaged citizens. Therefore, in this article, Pam, a middle school educator, and Tamara, a service-learning partner, examine how a teacher can institute critical service-learning programs in an urban classroom. By highlighting a teacher's intrinsic and extrinsic shifts, practical applications, and students' collaborations and reflections, this article illustrates how to move to critical service-learning in urban contexts. This examination has implications for how specific critical service-learning components can help teachers work with students to move toward socio-emotional growth."]
['Schaller, David T.', 'The Meaning Makes It Fun', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10598650.2011.11510707', 'AbstractMuseum games can be a powerful meaning-making experience for players, but only if we understand that what makes games fun is also what makes them meaningful. Renowned game designer Sid Meier (Civilization, Railroad Tycoon, Pirates) famously defined a good game as ?a series of interesting choices.? What makes choices interesting? The same things that make them meaningful: consequences, context, and a sawy appeal to human psychology. When designed well, these choices can make even mundane content meaningful. So imagine the possibilities when we use the stuff of museums?art, science, history, and technology?as our content and context. Whether creating a game or a simpler activity, we can draw on principles of game design to weave a series of interesting choices that honors our real-world content while engaging visitors in thoughtful ways. This article considers that most common type of ?game??the quiz?before analyzing the board game Monopoly for attributes of interesting choices, and finally discusses how those attributes are built into several games for cultural institutions. AbstractMuseum games can be a powerful meaning-making experience for players, but only if we understand that what makes games fun is also what makes them meaningful. Renowned game designer Sid Meier (Civilization, Railroad Tycoon, Pirates) famously defined a good game as ?a series of interesting choices.? What makes choices interesting? The same things that make them meaningful: consequences, context, and a sawy appeal to human psychology. When designed well, these choices can make even mundane content meaningful. So imagine the possibilities when we use the stuff of museums?art, science, history, and technology?as our content and context. Whether creating a game or a simpler activity, we can draw on principles of game design to weave a series of interesting choices that honors our real-world content while engaging visitors in thoughtful ways. This article considers that most common type of ?game??the quiz?before analyzing the board game Monopoly for attributes of interesting choices, and finally discusses how those attributes are built into several games for cultural institutions.']
['Schulz, Tobias & Baumgartner, Daniel', 'Volunteer Organizations: Odds or Obstacle for Small Business Formation in Rural Areas? Evidence from Swiss Municipalities', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00343404.2011.587799', "Schulz T. and Baumgartner D. Volunteer organizations: odds or obstacle for small business formation in rural areas? Evidence from Swiss municipalities, Regional Studies. Rural development strategies often claim to stimulate new firm foundations, for example, by supporting locally active volunteer organizations for economic development. Based on survey data from 254 rural Swiss municipalities, this paper analyses the influence of different types of volunteer organizations on new firm foundations by applying a zero-inflated Poisson regression approach. The results suggest that, generally, a higher number of volunteer organizations positively influence the foundation of local firms. Too many ?bonding? associations for economic development, however, lead to decreasing foundations. Exclusive support of organizations for economic development is thus not effective for stimulating new firm foundations in rural areas. Schulz T. and Baumgartner D. ??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? 254 ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ???????????????????????????????? Schulz T. et Baumgartner D. Les organisations b\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9voles: des atouts ou des inconv\xc3\xa9nients pour la cr\xc3\xa9ation des petites entreprises en zone rurale? Des preuves provenant des municipalit\xc3\xa9s suisses, Regional Studies. La politique d'am\xc3\xa9nagement du territoire en faveur des zones rurales pr\xc3\xa9tend souvent encourager la cr\xc3\xa9ation d'entreprise, par exemple, en soutenant des organisations b\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9voles pour le d\xc3\xa9veloppement \xc3\xa9conomique qui jouent un r\xc3\xb4le actif sur le plan local. Puisant dans des enqu\xc3\xaates aupr\xc3\xa8s de 254 municipalit\xc3\xa9s rurales suisses, cet article cherche \xc3\xa0 analyser l'influence de divers genres d'organisations b\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9voles sur la cr\xc3\xa9ation de nouvelles entreprises en appliquant une r\xc3\xa9gression du type Poisson d'ordre z\xc3\xa9ro. En r\xc3\xa8gle g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9rale, les r\xc3\xa9sultats laissent supposer qu'un nombre non-n\xc3\xa9gligeable d'organisations b\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9voles influent de fa\xc3\xa7on positive sur la cr\xc3\xa9ation d'entreprises locales. Cependant, trop d'organisations ?affectives? pour le d\xc3\xa9veloppement \xc3\xa9conomique entra\xc3\xaenent une baisse du nombre d?\xc3\xa9tablissements. Il s'av\xc3\xa8re, donc, que le soutien exclusif en faveur des organisations pour le d\xc3\xa9veloppement \xc3\xa9conomique ne r\xc3\xa9ussit pas \xc3\xa0 encourager la cr\xc3\xa9ation de nouvelles entreprises en zone rurale. Esprit d'entreprise?Cr\xc3\xa9ation de petites entreprises?R\xc3\xa9gions p\xc3\xa9riph\xc3\xa9riques?Suisse?Engagement municipal?Organisations b\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9voles?Capital social Schulz T. und Baumgartner D. Freiwilligenorganisationen: Chance oder Hindernis f\xc3\xbcr Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen im l\xc3\xa4ndlichen Raum? Evidenz aus Schweizer Gemeinden, Regional Studies. L\xc3\xa4ndliche Entwicklungsstrategien zielen oft darauf ab, Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen zu f\xc3\xb6rdern, beispielsweise durch die Unterst\xc3\xbctzung lokaler, auf die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung gerichteter Organisationen. Basierend auf Umfragedaten aus 254 l\xc3\xa4ndlichen Schweizer Gemeinden untersucht dieser Beitrag den Einfluss verschiedener Typen von Freiwilligenorganisationen auf Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen mittels einer ?zero-inflated? Poisson-Regression. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass eine h\xc3\xb6here Zahl von Freiwilligenorganisationen die Anzahl der Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen generell positiv beeinflusst. Allerdings f\xc3\xbchrt eine zu hohe Zahl ?abgrenzender? und auf die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung fokussierter Organisationen zu weniger Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen. Die ausschliessliche F\xc3\xb6rderung von Organisationen f\xc3\xbcr wirtschaftliche Entwicklung ist daher zur Unterst\xc3\xbctzung von Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen im l\xc3\xa4ndlichen Raum nicht effektiv. Unternehmertum?Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen?Nichtkernregionen?Schweiz?B\xc3\xbcrgerbeteiligung?Freiwilligenorganisation?Sozialkapital Schulz T. y Baumgartner D. Organizaciones de voluntarios: \xc2\xbfoportunidades u obst\xc3\xa1culos para la creaci\xc3\xb3n de peque\xc3\xb1os negocios en \xc3\xa1reas rurales? Ejemplos de municipios de Suiza, Regional Studies. Las estrategias del desarrollo rural pretenden muchas veces estimular la formaci\xc3\xb3n de nuevas empresas, por ejemplo, apoyando a organizaciones de voluntarios localmente activas para el desarrollo econ\xc3\xb3mico. Bas\xc3\xa1ndonos en los datos recabados en estudios sobre 254 municipios suizos de \xc3\xa1reas rurales, en este art\xc3\xadculo analizamos c\xc3\xb3mo influyen los diferentes tipos de organizaciones de voluntarios en la formaci\xc3\xb3n de nuevas empresas al aplicar el modelo de regresi\xc3\xb3n de Poisson con ceros aumentados. Los resultados indican que, en general, el hecho de que exista un mayor n\xc3\xbamero de organizaciones de voluntarios influye positivamente en la formaci\xc3\xb3n de empresas locales. Sin embargo, un n\xc3\xbamero demasiado alto de asociaciones delimitadas para el desarrollo econ\xc3\xb3mico conduce a una disminuci\xc3\xb3n en la creaci\xc3\xb3n de empresas. Por consiguiente, el apoyo exclusivo de las organizaciones para el desarrollo econ\xc3\xb3mico no es eficaz para estimular la formaci\xc3\xb3n de nuevas empresas en \xc3\xa1reas rurales. Empresariado?Creaci\xc3\xb3n de peque\xc3\xb1os negocios?Regiones no centrales?Suiza?Compromiso c\xc3\xadvico?Organizaci\xc3\xb3n de voluntarios?Capital social Schulz T. and Baumgartner D. Volunteer organizations: odds or obstacle for small business formation in rural areas? Evidence from Swiss municipalities, Regional Studies. Rural development strategies often claim to stimulate new firm foundations, for example, by supporting locally active volunteer organizations for economic development. Based on survey data from 254 rural Swiss municipalities, this paper analyses the influence of different types of volunteer organizations on new firm foundations by applying a zero-inflated Poisson regression approach. The results suggest that, generally, a higher number of volunteer organizations positively influence the foundation of local firms. Too many ?bonding? associations for economic development, however, lead to decreasing foundations. Exclusive support of organizations for economic development is thus not effective for stimulating new firm foundations in rural areas. Schulz T. and Baumgartner D. ??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? 254 ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ???????????????????????????????? Schulz T. et Baumgartner D. Les organisations b\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9voles: des atouts ou des inconv\xc3\xa9nients pour la cr\xc3\xa9ation des petites entreprises en zone rurale? Des preuves provenant des municipalit\xc3\xa9s suisses, Regional Studies. La politique d'am\xc3\xa9nagement du territoire en faveur des zones rurales pr\xc3\xa9tend souvent encourager la cr\xc3\xa9ation d'entreprise, par exemple, en soutenant des organisations b\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9voles pour le d\xc3\xa9veloppement \xc3\xa9conomique qui jouent un r\xc3\xb4le actif sur le plan local. Puisant dans des enqu\xc3\xaates aupr\xc3\xa8s de 254 municipalit\xc3\xa9s rurales suisses, cet article cherche \xc3\xa0 analyser l'influence de divers genres d'organisations b\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9voles sur la cr\xc3\xa9ation de nouvelles entreprises en appliquant une r\xc3\xa9gression du type Poisson d'ordre z\xc3\xa9ro. En r\xc3\xa8gle g\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9rale, les r\xc3\xa9sultats laissent supposer qu'un nombre non-n\xc3\xa9gligeable d'organisations b\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9voles influent de fa\xc3\xa7on positive sur la cr\xc3\xa9ation d'entreprises locales. Cependant, trop d'organisations ?affectives? pour le d\xc3\xa9veloppement \xc3\xa9conomique entra\xc3\xaenent une baisse du nombre d?\xc3\xa9tablissements. Il s'av\xc3\xa8re, donc, que le soutien exclusif en faveur des organisations pour le d\xc3\xa9veloppement \xc3\xa9conomique ne r\xc3\xa9ussit pas \xc3\xa0 encourager la cr\xc3\xa9ation de nouvelles entreprises en zone rurale. Esprit d'entreprise?Cr\xc3\xa9ation de petites entreprises?R\xc3\xa9gions p\xc3\xa9riph\xc3\xa9riques?Suisse?Engagement municipal?Organisations b\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9voles?Capital social Schulz T. und Baumgartner D. Freiwilligenorganisationen: Chance oder Hindernis f\xc3\xbcr Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen im l\xc3\xa4ndlichen Raum? Evidenz aus Schweizer Gemeinden, Regional Studies. L\xc3\xa4ndliche Entwicklungsstrategien zielen oft darauf ab, Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen zu f\xc3\xb6rdern, beispielsweise durch die Unterst\xc3\xbctzung lokaler, auf die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung gerichteter Organisationen. Basierend auf Umfragedaten aus 254 l\xc3\xa4ndlichen Schweizer Gemeinden untersucht dieser Beitrag den Einfluss verschiedener Typen von Freiwilligenorganisationen auf Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen mittels einer ?zero-inflated? Poisson-Regression. Die Ergebnisse zeigen, dass eine h\xc3\xb6here Zahl von Freiwilligenorganisationen die Anzahl der Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen generell positiv beeinflusst. Allerdings f\xc3\xbchrt eine zu hohe Zahl ?abgrenzender? und auf die wirtschaftliche Entwicklung fokussierter Organisationen zu weniger Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen. Die ausschliessliche F\xc3\xb6rderung von Organisationen f\xc3\xbcr wirtschaftliche Entwicklung ist daher zur Unterst\xc3\xbctzung von Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen im l\xc3\xa4ndlichen Raum nicht effektiv. Unternehmertum?Unternehmensgr\xc3\xbcndungen?Nichtkernregionen?Schweiz?B\xc3\xbcrgerbeteiligung?Freiwilligenorganisation?Sozialkapital Schulz T. y Baumgartner D. Organizaciones de voluntarios: \xc2\xbfoportunidades u obst\xc3\xa1culos para la creaci\xc3\xb3n de peque\xc3\xb1os negocios en \xc3\xa1reas rurales? Ejemplos de municipios de Suiza, Regional Studies. Las estrategias del desarrollo rural pretenden muchas veces estimular la formaci\xc3\xb3n de nuevas empresas, por ejemplo, apoyando a organizaciones de voluntarios localmente activas para el desarrollo econ\xc3\xb3mico. Bas\xc3\xa1ndonos en los datos recabados en estudios sobre 254 municipios suizos de \xc3\xa1reas rurales, en este art\xc3\xadculo analizamos c\xc3\xb3mo influyen los diferentes tipos de organizaciones de voluntarios en la formaci\xc3\xb3n de nuevas empresas al aplicar el modelo de regresi\xc3\xb3n de Poisson con ceros aumentados. Los resultados indican que, en general, el hecho de que exista un mayor n\xc3\xbamero de organizaciones de voluntarios influye positivamente en la formaci\xc3\xb3n de empresas locales. Sin embargo, un n\xc3\xbamero demasiado alto de asociaciones delimitadas para el desarrollo econ\xc3\xb3mico conduce a una disminuci\xc3\xb3n en la creaci\xc3\xb3n de empresas. Por consiguiente, el apoyo exclusivo de las organizaciones para el desarrollo econ\xc3\xb3mico no es eficaz para estimular la formaci\xc3\xb3n de nuevas empresas en \xc3\xa1reas rurales. Empresariado?Creaci\xc3\xb3n de peque\xc3\xb1os negocios?Regiones no centrales?Suiza?Compromiso c\xc3\xadvico?Organizaci\xc3\xb3n de voluntarios?Capital social"]
['Tsourtou, Vasiliki; Hatzinikolaou, Korina & Chatzinikolaou, Christina', 'Action research with children and adolescents working on the streets of Athens, Greece', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09614524.2014.899996', "In fieldwork with children and adolescents working on the streets of Athens, Greece, the authors applied a multidisciplinary methodology, through which participants were empowered to articulate their own voice. This article discusses some indicant themes which emerged through participants' narrations and through their active engagement in Theatre-for-Development: (1) the role of family attachment and social networks promoting the continuity of children's cultural identity; (2) their perception of working on the streets as a vital need to contribute to family income; and (3) the way young subjects resituated themselves both in their relation with the mainstream culture and within their own culture. In fieldwork with children and adolescents working on the streets of Athens, Greece, the authors applied a multidisciplinary methodology, through which participants were empowered to articulate their own voice. This article discusses some indicant themes which emerged through participants' narrations and through their active engagement in Theatre-for-Development: (1) the role of family attachment and social networks promoting the continuity of children's cultural identity; (2) their perception of working on the streets as a vital need to contribute to family income; and (3) the way young subjects resituated themselves both in their relation with the mainstream culture and within their own culture."]
['Wade, Alex', 'Dots, fruit, speed and pills: the Happy Consciousness of Pac-Man', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14797585.2015.1021991', 'Spanning 30\xc2\xa0years and 40 individual videogames across a range of platforms, Pac-Man is one of the most recognizable of all videogame characters and a pop?culture icon. In spite of its widespread popularity, the game receives little sustained academic engagement or analysis. In an attempt to address this, the paper argues that in its classic iterations Pac-Man generates complex notions of space and time which are indicative of changing cultural, ethical and political considerations in wider society. This is explored through recourse to Borges? work on labyrinths, Bauman?s discussion of the ethical position of videogames, Poole?s rejoinder and Ritzer?s critique of consumerism, ultimately arguing that the dynamics, themes and leitmotifs evident in Pac-Man are experienced by gamers, consumers and citizens described in Marcuse?s One Dimensional Society, whereby the welfare and warfare state coalesce to generate the Happy Consciousness. Spanning 30\xc2\xa0years and 40 individual videogames across a range of platforms, Pac-Man is one of the most recognizable of all videogame characters and a pop?culture icon. In spite of its widespread popularity, the game receives little sustained academic engagement or analysis. In an attempt to address this, the paper argues that in its classic iterations Pac-Man generates complex notions of space and time which are indicative of changing cultural, ethical and political considerations in wider society. This is explored through recourse to Borges? work on labyrinths, Bauman?s discussion of the ethical position of videogames, Poole?s rejoinder and Ritzer?s critique of consumerism, ultimately arguing that the dynamics, themes and leitmotifs evident in Pac-Man are experienced by gamers, consumers and citizens described in Marcuse?s One Dimensional Society, whereby the welfare and warfare state coalesce to generate the Happy Consciousness.']
['Wentworth, Lesley & Makokera, Catherine Grant', 'Private sector participation in infrastructure for development', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10220461.2015.1081568', 'This article reflects on the variety of finance sources to African countries, including aid flows, remittances, development finance, private equity and bonds and foreign direct investment. In order to address the poverty challenge, estimated at about $66 billion annually, these finances must be applied appropriately in various economic sectors, in particular the infrastructure sectors. These include both physical assets (transport, energy, water and sanitation and information and communications) and social services (hospitals and clinics, education and low-income housing). Governments are ultimately responsible for ensuring access to infrastructure for their citizens. However, developing-country governments are unable to address the infrastructure backlogs, let alone develop new assets, especially in the least developed countries in Africa. Governments rely on alliances with international partners, development finance institutions and, importantly, the private sector. However, the rules of engagement with the private sector need to be redefined, with proper emphasis on bringing affordable yet quality access to poorer communities. This article reflects on the variety of finance sources to African countries, including aid flows, remittances, development finance, private equity and bonds and foreign direct investment. In order to address the poverty challenge, estimated at about $66 billion annually, these finances must be applied appropriately in various economic sectors, in particular the infrastructure sectors. These include both physical assets (transport, energy, water and sanitation and information and communications) and social services (hospitals and clinics, education and low-income housing). Governments are ultimately responsible for ensuring access to infrastructure for their citizens. However, developing-country governments are unable to address the infrastructure backlogs, let alone develop new assets, especially in the least developed countries in Africa. Governments rely on alliances with international partners, development finance institutions and, importantly, the private sector. However, the rules of engagement with the private sector need to be redefined, with proper emphasis on bringing affordable yet quality access to poorer communities.']
['Whyte, Jennifer; Lindkvist, Carmel & Jaradat, Suha', 'Passing the baton? Handing over digital data from the project to operations', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21573727.2015.1115396', 'ABSTRACTFrom fieldwork conducted ahead of the London Olympic Games, we develop new understanding of how organizations hand over digital data from the project to operations. Prior research explains how practitioners negotiate meaning across boundaries in ongoing work. However, it gives little attention to hand-over, where one group disengages as another engages. We use the analogy of the baton pass in a relay race to articulate how hand-over requires attention to sequence, timing, passing technique and communication within a time-constrained window of opportunity. In our case study, the project delivery team transfer responsibility for sports venues and other facilities, and their associated digital data, to Games operators. We show how delivery professionals both project the nature of future work; and probe how meanings will be interpreted. They seek to extend the window to discuss and negotiate meaning with operators. Our study contributes to research on engineering projects and on the coordination of knowledge work by articulating the baton pass, window of opportunity and projection and probing activities involved in hand-over. Understanding and improving the hand-over of digital data from the project to operations is important to enable owners and operators to better manage built infrastructure. ABSTRACTFrom fieldwork conducted ahead of the London Olympic Games, we develop new understanding of how organizations hand over digital data from the project to operations. Prior research explains how practitioners negotiate meaning across boundaries in ongoing work. However, it gives little attention to hand-over, where one group disengages as another engages. We use the analogy of the baton pass in a relay race to articulate how hand-over requires attention to sequence, timing, passing technique and communication within a time-constrained window of opportunity. In our case study, the project delivery team transfer responsibility for sports venues and other facilities, and their associated digital data, to Games operators. We show how delivery professionals both project the nature of future work; and probe how meanings will be interpreted. They seek to extend the window to discuss and negotiate meaning with operators. Our study contributes to research on engineering projects and on the coordination of knowledge work by articulating the baton pass, window of opportunity and projection and probing activities involved in hand-over. Understanding and improving the hand-over of digital data from the project to operations is important to enable owners and operators to better manage built infrastructure.']
['Wieser, Bernhard', 'The Microphysics of Accountability', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/08989621.2011.575034', 'How is it possible to deploy the law to create and perform accountability? To answer this question, I address the argumentative function of the law in order to legitimize genetic medicine. Using interview data, I will in particular elaborate on how medical experts strive to convince interviewing social scientists that their own professional action is above all ethical reproach. For this purpose, medical experts capitalize on the law in specific ways. It is the aim of this article to expound exactly how this happens during qualitative research interviews. The analysis of the interview data is informed by the works of Sheila Jasanoff and Michel Foucault. The former provides an instructive conceptual background for demonstrating how the law serves as an important element of accountability practices. The latter is known for his plea not to understand the law in repressive terms. Accordingly, the law does not prohibit specific medical practices, but in a specific sense it rather makes medical practice socially robust. Based on qualitative analysis of interview data, I conclude that referring to the law allows experts of genetic medicine to evade engaging with ethical and social aspects of their work. The law was rhetorically utilized to bring a discussion on such issues to a communicative closure. For that purpose, the existence of the law was presented as proof that undesirable practices would not be possible and consequently further discussions of the matter would be unnecessary. The law allows medical experts to transfer ethical problems to other places and actors and also to promote their professional interests. How is it possible to deploy the law to create and perform accountability? To answer this question, I address the argumentative function of the law in order to legitimize genetic medicine. Using interview data, I will in particular elaborate on how medical experts strive to convince interviewing social scientists that their own professional action is above all ethical reproach. For this purpose, medical experts capitalize on the law in specific ways. It is the aim of this article to expound exactly how this happens during qualitative research interviews. The analysis of the interview data is informed by the works of Sheila Jasanoff and Michel Foucault. The former provides an instructive conceptual background for demonstrating how the law serves as an important element of accountability practices. The latter is known for his plea not to understand the law in repressive terms. Accordingly, the law does not prohibit specific medical practices, but in a specific sense it rather makes medical practice socially robust. Based on qualitative analysis of interview data, I conclude that referring to the law allows experts of genetic medicine to evade engaging with ethical and social aspects of their work. The law was rhetorically utilized to bring a discussion on such issues to a communicative closure. For that purpose, the existence of the law was presented as proof that undesirable practices would not be possible and consequently further discussions of the matter would be unnecessary. The law allows medical experts to transfer ethical problems to other places and actors and also to promote their professional interests.']
['Xia, Bo; Zuo, Jian; Skitmore, Martin; Chen, Qing & Rarasati, Ayomi', 'Sustainable retirement village for older people: a case study in Brisbane, Australia', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.3846/1648715X.2015.1029564', "ABSTRACTRetirement villages are regarded as a viable accommodation option for the ever increasing ageing population in Australia. This paper aims to identify sustainability features and practices adopted in retirement villages and associated benefits to improve the life quality of older people. A case study of an existing retirement village 10 kms from Brisbane CBD was conducted involving a series of interviews with the village managers and residents together with documents relating to the village's operations and activities. The environmentally friendly features that were incorporated into the development mainly include green design for the site and floor plan and waste management in daily operation. More importantly, a variety of facilities are provided to strengthen the social engagement and interactions among the residents. Additionally, different daily services are provided to assist independent living and improve the health conditions of residents. Also, the relatively low vacancy rate in this village indicates that these sustainability features offer good value of money for the residents. The paper provides a first look at sustainable retirement villages in terms of triple bottom line sustainability with emphasis on social aspects, reveals the importance in maintaining an appropriate balance, and provides examples of how this can be achieved in practice. ABSTRACTRetirement villages are regarded as a viable accommodation option for the ever increasing ageing population in Australia. This paper aims to identify sustainability features and practices adopted in retirement villages and associated benefits to improve the life quality of older people. A case study of an existing retirement village 10 kms from Brisbane CBD was conducted involving a series of interviews with the village managers and residents together with documents relating to the village's operations and activities. The environmentally friendly features that were incorporated into the development mainly include green design for the site and floor plan and waste management in daily operation. More importantly, a variety of facilities are provided to strengthen the social engagement and interactions among the residents. Additionally, different daily services are provided to assist independent living and improve the health conditions of residents. Also, the relatively low vacancy rate in this village indicates that these sustainability features offer good value of money for the residents. The paper provides a first look at sustainable retirement villages in terms of triple bottom line sustainability with emphasis on social aspects, reveals the importance in maintaining an appropriate balance, and provides examples of how this can be achieved in practice."]
['Xu, Weiai Wayne & Feng, Miao', 'Talking to the Broadcasters on Twitter: Networked Gatekeeping in Twitter Conversations with Journalists', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08838151.2014.935853', 'Drawing upon the theory of networked gatekeeping, this study describes how citizens engage in Twitter conversations with journalists and illustrates the power dynamic between traditional gatekeepers (journalists) and the gated (news audience). The power dynamic is discussed along four attributes of the gated?political power, information production ability, relationship with gatekeepers, and information alternatives. Results show that citizens interacted with gatekeepers by sharing information/opinion, social chats, and self-serving promotion of individual opinions and agendas. Politically active citizens interacted more often with journalists who share similar ideology. The citizens have varying degrees of political power, reflected by their different levels of involvement and influence in political discourse online. The implications for gatekeeping are also addressed. Drawing upon the theory of networked gatekeeping, this study describes how citizens engage in Twitter conversations with journalists and illustrates the power dynamic between traditional gatekeepers (journalists) and the gated (news audience). The power dynamic is discussed along four attributes of the gated?political power, information production ability, relationship with gatekeepers, and information alternatives. Results show that citizens interacted with gatekeepers by sharing information/opinion, social chats, and self-serving promotion of individual opinions and agendas. Politically active citizens interacted more often with journalists who share similar ideology. The citizens have varying degrees of political power, reflected by their different levels of involvement and influence in political discourse online. The implications for gatekeeping are also addressed.']
['Yeung, Rikkie L. K.; Li, Anthony H. F. & Hung, Samuel K.', 'Monetising social and environmental costs in infrastructure evaluation: the case of Hong Kong\xe2\x80\x99s third international airport runway', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/23276665.2015.1075530', 'Traditionally, governments have been inclined to make economic progress at the expense of social and environmental well-being. Since the 1980s, there have been calls for governments to pursue development in a sustainable way by considering the social and environmental impacts of any infrastructure projects in addition to their concern about economic benefits. In 2010, the construction of the third runway at the Hong Kong International Airport was proposed at an infrastructure cost unprecedented in Hong Kong?s history. This research note uses this development as a case to demonstrate how social and environmental impacts can be monetised by the innovative application of social return on investment (SROI) as weighed against economic benefits in the same currency. It identifies climate change, aviation noise, and damage to the habitat of Chinese white dolphins as impacts from the proposed runway. These impacts are converted into monetary costs under the SROI approach with particular attention to the use of proxies, stakeholder engagement, and the development of various scenarios. Limitations of the analysis and future research directions are discussed. Traditionally, governments have been inclined to make economic progress at the expense of social and environmental well-being. Since the 1980s, there have been calls for governments to pursue development in a sustainable way by considering the social and environmental impacts of any infrastructure projects in addition to their concern about economic benefits. In 2010, the construction of the third runway at the Hong Kong International Airport was proposed at an infrastructure cost unprecedented in Hong Kong?s history. This research note uses this development as a case to demonstrate how social and environmental impacts can be monetised by the innovative application of social return on investment (SROI) as weighed against economic benefits in the same currency. It identifies climate change, aviation noise, and damage to the habitat of Chinese white dolphins as impacts from the proposed runway. These impacts are converted into monetary costs under the SROI approach with particular attention to the use of proxies, stakeholder engagement, and the development of various scenarios. Limitations of the analysis and future research directions are discussed.']
['Yu, Tianqi', "Camera activism in contemporary People's Republic of China: provocative documentation, first person confrontation, and collective force in Ai Weiwei's Lao Ma Ti Hua", 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17503280.2014.1002251', "Ai Weiwei's film Lao Ma Ti Hua (aka Disturbing the Peace, 2009) is one of the most influential activist documentaries that emerged during the aftermath of Sichuan earthquake in 2009. The film relates to Ai's ?Public Citizen Investigation Project?, which gathers many volunteers to explore the substandard ?tofu construction? of school buildings that took thousands of children's lives when they collapsed in the earthquake. In August 2009, Ai's group went to Chengdu court to support another independent investigator, writer, and environmentalist Tan Zuoren who was prosecuted for subversion of state power. The night before the trial, Ai was beaten by secret security agents and the group was stopped from going to the court. The film subsequently records the group searching for an official explanation from the authorities. Whilst acknowledging the power of the film in constructing a collective political subjectivity, and the discursive effect through screenings and discussions raised, this paper focuses on the very action of proactive, activist documentation of one's witness to engage with fellow participants as well as viewer followers through digital camera. Under the theoretical framework of participatory culture, I propose the term camera activism to understand the camera-enabled individual participation into activism as a form of socio-political intervention. The paper also analyses some of Ai's problematic actions as a charismatic celebrity, which sometimes overshadow and obscure the complexity of resistance by Chinese individuals within China, thereby neglecting full recognition of the complex collective forces which support Ai. Nevertheless, ?camera activism? demonstrated in the making of Lao Ma Ti Hua reflects, and has the potential to reshape, the political landscape in twenty-first century China. The cinematic highlight of ?I?, confronting and eye-witnessing what happens through the utilization of digital technologies positions ?camera activism? as an important part of China's iGeneration cinema culture. Ai Weiwei's film Lao Ma Ti Hua (aka Disturbing the Peace, 2009) is one of the most influential activist documentaries that emerged during the aftermath of Sichuan earthquake in 2009. The film relates to Ai's ?Public Citizen Investigation Project?, which gathers many volunteers to explore the substandard ?tofu construction? of school buildings that took thousands of children's lives when they collapsed in the earthquake. In August 2009, Ai's group went to Chengdu court to support another independent investigator, writer, and environmentalist Tan Zuoren who was prosecuted for subversion of state power. The night before the trial, Ai was beaten by secret security agents and the group was stopped from going to the court. The film subsequently records the group searching for an official explanation from the authorities. Whilst acknowledging the power of the film in constructing a collective political subjectivity, and the discursive effect through screenings and discussions raised, this paper focuses on the very action of proactive, activist documentation of one's witness to engage with fellow participants as well as viewer followers through digital camera. Under the theoretical framework of participatory culture, I propose the term camera activism to understand the camera-enabled individual participation into activism as a form of socio-political intervention. The paper also analyses some of Ai's problematic actions as a charismatic celebrity, which sometimes overshadow and obscure the complexity of resistance by Chinese individuals within China, thereby neglecting full recognition of the complex collective forces which support Ai. Nevertheless, ?camera activism? demonstrated in the making of Lao Ma Ti Hua reflects, and has the potential to reshape, the political landscape in twenty-first century China. The cinematic highlight of ?I?, confronting and eye-witnessing what happens through the utilization of digital technologies positions ?camera activism? as an important part of China's iGeneration cinema culture."]
['Allen, Mahalley D.; Parker, Sally A. & DeLorenzo, Teodora C.', 'Civic Engagement in the Community: Undergraduate Clinical Legal Education', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15512169.2012.641393', 'The Community Legal Information Center (CLIC) of California State University, Chico, provides a unique civic engagement program designed to serve the legal service needs of Northern California. Founded in 1969, CLIC is now a 12-program, on-campus law clinic staffed by up to 125 undergraduate students each semester and is the most extensive undergraduate legal clinic in the nation. Although free legal clinics are not unusual at law schools, they are very rare at the undergraduate level. We discuss how CLIC successfully provides students with the opportunity to serve the legal needs of their community while also applying what they have learned through traditional classroom learning. Research on successful undergraduate civic engagement programs is significant because civic engagement and service-learning are often perceived as lacking educational quality and merit. Further, legitimate questions surrounding civic engagement programs, such as the proper educational methodology to be used in such programs, still exist. We explore how CLIC serves as a framework from which other academic programs can model their own civic engagement programs such that they integrate traditional academic exercises with community service. The Community Legal Information Center (CLIC) of California State University, Chico, provides a unique civic engagement program designed to serve the legal service needs of Northern California. Founded in 1969, CLIC is now a 12-program, on-campus law clinic staffed by up to 125 undergraduate students each semester and is the most extensive undergraduate legal clinic in the nation. Although free legal clinics are not unusual at law schools, they are very rare at the undergraduate level. We discuss how CLIC successfully provides students with the opportunity to serve the legal needs of their community while also applying what they have learned through traditional classroom learning. Research on successful undergraduate civic engagement programs is significant because civic engagement and service-learning are often perceived as lacking educational quality and merit. Further, legitimate questions surrounding civic engagement programs, such as the proper educational methodology to be used in such programs, still exist. We explore how CLIC serves as a framework from which other academic programs can model their own civic engagement programs such that they integrate traditional academic exercises with community service.']
['Banaji, Shakuntala & Buckingham, David', 'THE CIVIC SELL', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13691180802687621', "This article is based on newly completed research looking at the role of the internet as a means of promoting civic engagement and participation among young people aged 15?25. It focuses on one specific aspect of this phenomenon, namely the use of websites to promote ?ethical consumption? among young people. This paper begins by briefly examining several intersecting works discussing not-for-profit marketing, commercial marketing, youth cultures and subcultures, politics, and ethical consumerism. It then moves on to examine the rhetorical constructions of youth identity and ethical consumerism on a range of civic websites, exploring the identifications and disavowals implicit in the language, layout, and imagery, and the conceptualizations civic-orientated Web producers have of their audiences and of consumption per se. This is achieved by taking a case-study approach involving a qualitative textual analysis of web-pages taken from UK and US-based sites such as Adbusters, Oxfam's Generation Why, Ethics Girls, Adili and Amnesty International, which advertise or promote the buying of ethical goods by young people. It also involves an analysis of the aims of the site producers, as exemplified on the sites? mission statements and in in-depth interviews. By means of this analysis, the article seeks to identify and assess the actually or potentially ?civic? aspects of these sites and to question the notion of ethical consumption in particular. This article is based on newly completed research looking at the role of the internet as a means of promoting civic engagement and participation among young people aged 15?25. It focuses on one specific aspect of this phenomenon, namely the use of websites to promote ?ethical consumption? among young people. This paper begins by briefly examining several intersecting works discussing not-for-profit marketing, commercial marketing, youth cultures and subcultures, politics, and ethical consumerism. It then moves on to examine the rhetorical constructions of youth identity and ethical consumerism on a range of civic websites, exploring the identifications and disavowals implicit in the language, layout, and imagery, and the conceptualizations civic-orientated Web producers have of their audiences and of consumption per se. This is achieved by taking a case-study approach involving a qualitative textual analysis of web-pages taken from UK and US-based sites such as Adbusters, Oxfam's Generation Why, Ethics Girls, Adili and Amnesty International, which advertise or promote the buying of ethical goods by young people. It also involves an analysis of the aims of the site producers, as exemplified on the sites? mission statements and in in-depth interviews. By means of this analysis, the article seeks to identify and assess the actually or potentially ?civic? aspects of these sites and to question the notion of ethical consumption in particular."]
['Bosch-Sijtsema, Petra M. & Bosch, Jan', 'Plays nice with others? Multiple ecosystems, various roles and divergent engagement models', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09537325.2015.1038231', 'In strategic management, the term meta-organisation is discussed as a network of firms and individuals in which members coexist, collaborate and evolve through a set of relationships and together form a larger organism. We focus on the meta-organisation form of an ecosystem in the IT industry, which often is based around a technical architecture or platform. Studies often discuss one network and selected members in such a network, but few mention that firms can work in multiple ecosystems and need to apply divergent engagement models. We study how firms engage in multiple ecosystems through three qualitative case studies. The article contributes with the following: (1) firms often operate in multiple ecosystems for which they need to dynamically adapt their engagement strategy. (2) Firms are striving to balance between strategic divergences: power versus symbiosis and a collaborative approach versus a competitive approach. In strategic management, the term meta-organisation is discussed as a network of firms and individuals in which members coexist, collaborate and evolve through a set of relationships and together form a larger organism. We focus on the meta-organisation form of an ecosystem in the IT industry, which often is based around a technical architecture or platform. Studies often discuss one network and selected members in such a network, but few mention that firms can work in multiple ecosystems and need to apply divergent engagement models. We study how firms engage in multiple ecosystems through three qualitative case studies. The article contributes with the following: (1) firms often operate in multiple ecosystems for which they need to dynamically adapt their engagement strategy. (2) Firms are striving to balance between strategic divergences: power versus symbiosis and a collaborative approach versus a competitive approach.']
['\xc3\x87elik, G\xc3\xbcrkan', 'Breakpoint or Binder: Religious Engagement in Dutch Civil Society', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17448689.2013.813733', 'Civil society as a social sphere is constantly subjected to change. Using the Dutch context, this article addresses the question whether religiously inspired engagement is a binder or a breakpoint in modern societies. The author examines how religiously inspired people in the Netherlands involve themselves in non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and voluntary activities. Religious involvement and social engagement in different European countries are compared and discussed. In addition, the author explores the models of civil society and applies these to both the Christian and Islamic civil society in the Netherlands. Using four religious ?identity organizations? as case studies, this article discusses the interaction of Christian and Islamic civil society related to secularized Dutch society. The character and intentions of religiously inspired organizations and the relationship between religious and secular involvement are examined. This study also focuses on the attitude of policymakers towards religiously inspired engagement and government policy on ?identity organizations? in the Netherlands. Civil society as a social sphere is constantly subjected to change. Using the Dutch context, this article addresses the question whether religiously inspired engagement is a binder or a breakpoint in modern societies. The author examines how religiously inspired people in the Netherlands involve themselves in non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and voluntary activities. Religious involvement and social engagement in different European countries are compared and discussed. In addition, the author explores the models of civil society and applies these to both the Christian and Islamic civil society in the Netherlands. Using four religious ?identity organizations? as case studies, this article discusses the interaction of Christian and Islamic civil society related to secularized Dutch society. The character and intentions of religiously inspired organizations and the relationship between religious and secular involvement are examined. This study also focuses on the attitude of policymakers towards religiously inspired engagement and government policy on ?identity organizations? in the Netherlands.']
['Chadwick, Andrew', 'Explaining the Failure of an Online Citizen Engagement Initiative: The Role of Internal Institutional Variables', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19331681.2010.507999', "This article presents an exploratory case study based on fieldwork consisting of in-depth, semistructured interviews and group discussions with administrative, legal, political, and technology staff involved in an online citizen engagement initiative in ?TechCounty,? a pseudonymous U.S. local government authority operating in one of the most favorable sociodemographic and technological contexts imaginable. In contrast with many of the dominant approaches in the literature, the article reveals how a rich, complex, and sometimes surprising array of internal institutional variables explains the initiative's failure. The article highlights the fragile and uncertain adoption of online engagement by public organizations and the significance of this study's method for building theory and guiding future research. This article presents an exploratory case study based on fieldwork consisting of in-depth, semistructured interviews and group discussions with administrative, legal, political, and technology staff involved in an online citizen engagement initiative in ?TechCounty,? a pseudonymous U.S. local government authority operating in one of the most favorable sociodemographic and technological contexts imaginable. In contrast with many of the dominant approaches in the literature, the article reveals how a rich, complex, and sometimes surprising array of internal institutional variables explains the initiative's failure. The article highlights the fragile and uncertain adoption of online engagement by public organizations and the significance of this study's method for building theory and guiding future research."]
['Chen, Wenhong', 'Taking stock, moving forward: the Internet, social networks and civic engagement in Chinese societies', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2013.857425', "The Internet in China reflects many contradictions and complexities of the society in which it is embedded. Despite the growing significance of digital media and technologies, research on their contingent, nonlinear, and sometimes paradoxical impact on Chinese citizens' civic engagement remains theoretically underdeveloped and empirically understudied. As importantly, many studies on the Internet implications in the Chinese societies have centered on China. This essay introduces seven articles that draw on a variety of theoretical and methodological approaches to advance a balanced and context-rich understanding of the implications of digital media and technologies in China, Taiwan, and the global Chinese diaspora. It further discusses venues for future research, especially studies that take into account the evolving Chinese media landscape and the rise of the mobile Internet, civic and political participation across multiple platforms and their interactions, as well as organizational and interpersonal networks as the state and an emerging civil society inform, empower, and engage one another via digital media. The Internet in China reflects many contradictions and complexities of the society in which it is embedded. Despite the growing significance of digital media and technologies, research on their contingent, nonlinear, and sometimes paradoxical impact on Chinese citizens' civic engagement remains theoretically underdeveloped and empirically understudied. As importantly, many studies on the Internet implications in the Chinese societies have centered on China. This essay introduces seven articles that draw on a variety of theoretical and methodological approaches to advance a balanced and context-rich understanding of the implications of digital media and technologies in China, Taiwan, and the global Chinese diaspora. It further discusses venues for future research, especially studies that take into account the evolving Chinese media landscape and the rise of the mobile Internet, civic and political participation across multiple platforms and their interactions, as well as organizational and interpersonal networks as the state and an emerging civil society inform, empower, and engage one another via digital media."]
['Chu, Eric; Anguelovski, Isabelle & Carmin, JoAnn', 'Inclusive approaches to urban climate adaptation planning and implementation in the Global South', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14693062.2015.1019822', 'As cities increasingly engage in climate adaptation planning, many are seeking to promote public participation and facilitate the engagement of different civil society actors. Still, the variations that exist among participatory approaches and the merits and tradeoffs associated with each are not well understood. This article examines the experiences of Quito (Ecuador) and Surat (India) to assess how civil society actors contribute to adaptation planning and implementation. The results showcase two distinct approaches to public engagement. The first emphasizes participation of experts, affected communities, and a wide array of citizens to sustain broadly inclusive programmes that incorporate local needs and concerns into adaptation processes and outcomes. The second approach focuses on building targeted partnerships between key government, private, and civil society actors to institutionalize robust decision-making structures, enhance abilities to raise funds, and increase means to directly engage with local community and international actors. A critical analysis of these approaches suggests more inclusive planning processes correspond to higher climate equity and justice outcomes in the short term, but the results also indicate that an emphasis on building dedicated multi-sector governance institutions may enhance long-term programme stability, while ensuring that diverse civil society actors have an ongoing voice in climate adaptation planning and implementation.Policy relevanceMany local governments in the Global South experience severe capacity and resource constraints. Cities are often required to devolve large-scale planning and decision-making responsibilities, such as those critical to climate adaptation, to different civil society actors. As a result, there needs to be more rigorous assessments of how civil society participation contributes to the adaptation policy and planning process and what local social, political, and economic factors dictate the way cities select different approaches to public engagement. Also, since social equity and justice are key indicators for determining the effectiveness and sustainability of adaptation interventions, urban adaptation plans and policies must also be designed according to local institutional strengths and civic capacities in order to account for the needs of the poor and most vulnerable. Inclusivity, therefore, is critical for ensuring equitable planning processes and just adaptation outcomes. As cities increasingly engage in climate adaptation planning, many are seeking to promote public participation and facilitate the engagement of different civil society actors. Still, the variations that exist among participatory approaches and the merits and tradeoffs associated with each are not well understood. This article examines the experiences of Quito (Ecuador) and Surat (India) to assess how civil society actors contribute to adaptation planning and implementation. The results showcase two distinct approaches to public engagement. The first emphasizes participation of experts, affected communities, and a wide array of citizens to sustain broadly inclusive programmes that incorporate local needs and concerns into adaptation processes and outcomes. The second approach focuses on building targeted partnerships between key government, private, and civil society actors to institutionalize robust decision-making structures, enhance abilities to raise funds, and increase means to directly engage with local community and international actors. A critical analysis of these approaches suggests more inclusive planning processes correspond to higher climate equity and justice outcomes in the short term, but the results also indicate that an emphasis on building dedicated multi-sector governance institutions may enhance long-term programme stability, while ensuring that diverse civil society actors have an ongoing voice in climate adaptation planning and implementation.Policy relevanceMany local governments in the Global South experience severe capacity and resource constraints. Cities are often required to devolve large-scale planning and decision-making responsibilities, such as those critical to climate adaptation, to different civil society actors. As a result, there needs to be more rigorous assessments of how civil society participation contributes to the adaptation policy and planning process and what local social, political, and economic factors dictate the way cities select different approaches to public engagement. Also, since social equity and justice are key indicators for determining the effectiveness and sustainability of adaptation interventions, urban adaptation plans and policies must also be designed according to local institutional strengths and civic capacities in order to account for the needs of the poor and most vulnerable. Inclusivity, therefore, is critical for ensuring equitable planning processes and just adaptation outcomes.']
['Cicognani, Elvira; Albanesi, Cinzia; Mazzoni, Davide; Prati, Gabriele & Zani, Bruna', 'Explaining offline and online civic engagement intentions between Italian and migrant youth / An\xc3\xa1lisis de las intenciones de participaci\xc3\xb3n c\xc3\xadvica virtual y presencial entre j\xc3\xb3venes italianos y emigrantes', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02134748.2016.1143177', 'AbstractThe aim of the study was to assess the role of some psychosocial factors in explaining offline and online civic engagement intentions in a sample of Italian and second generation migrant (Albanian and Moroccan) adolescents and young adults living in Italy. The theoretical model was an extended version of the Theory of Planned Behaviour including past experience. The sample included 598 adolescents and young adults (M = 19.32, SD = 3.17). Two hundred were Italian (88 males, 44.0%), 197 migrants of Albanian origin (130 males, 66%) and 201 migrants of Moroccan origin (116 males, 57.7%). Moroccan youth reported higher levels of both past civic engagement and future intentions than Albanian and Italian peers. Perceived effectiveness of civic engagement and past experience are consistently associated with stronger intentions to engage in the future (offline and online) in all groups. Internal efficacy plays a limited role, whereas the role of subjective norms differs according to the group and the source of normative influence (parents, peers). AbstractThe aim of the study was to assess the role of some psychosocial factors in explaining offline and online civic engagement intentions in a sample of Italian and second generation migrant (Albanian and Moroccan) adolescents and young adults living in Italy. The theoretical model was an extended version of the Theory of Planned Behaviour including past experience. The sample included 598 adolescents and young adults (M = 19.32, SD = 3.17). Two hundred were Italian (88 males, 44.0%), 197 migrants of Albanian origin (130 males, 66%) and 201 migrants of Moroccan origin (116 males, 57.7%). Moroccan youth reported higher levels of both past civic engagement and future intentions than Albanian and Italian peers. Perceived effectiveness of civic engagement and past experience are consistently associated with stronger intentions to engage in the future (offline and online) in all groups. Internal efficacy plays a limited role, whereas the role of subjective norms differs according to the group and the source of normative influence (parents, peers).']
['Cotton, Matthew David & Mahroos-Alsaiari, Ahmed A.', 'Key actor perspectives on stakeholder engagement in Omani Environmental Impact Assessment: an application of Q-Methodology', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09640568.2013.847822', 'Stakeholder engagement (SE), particularly with representatives of locally affected communities, is integral to Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) processes, so critical evaluation of SE is necessary across a range of different socio-political contexts. EIA SE practice in the Sultanate of Oman is examined using Q-Methodology, a qualitative-quantitative discourse analysis technique, in order to evaluate key-actor perspectives and policy directions. Four discourses emerge, pertaining to (1) the institutionalisation of SE; (2) business as usual; (3) rights-centred engagement; and (4) decentralisation of EIA institutions. Consensus emerges that shows support for transparency and formalisation of SE; greater citizen-centred decision-making power; transparency in government guidelines; and the elimination of developer-led consultation processes. Policy options for reforming EIA policy are discussed, including a code of participation practice and a toolkit of suitable engagement methods. Stakeholder engagement (SE), particularly with representatives of locally affected communities, is integral to Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) processes, so critical evaluation of SE is necessary across a range of different socio-political contexts. EIA SE practice in the Sultanate of Oman is examined using Q-Methodology, a qualitative-quantitative discourse analysis technique, in order to evaluate key-actor perspectives and policy directions. Four discourses emerge, pertaining to (1) the institutionalisation of SE; (2) business as usual; (3) rights-centred engagement; and (4) decentralisation of EIA institutions. Consensus emerges that shows support for transparency and formalisation of SE; greater citizen-centred decision-making power; transparency in government guidelines; and the elimination of developer-led consultation processes. Policy options for reforming EIA policy are discussed, including a code of participation practice and a toolkit of suitable engagement methods.']
['Deligiaouri, Anastasia', 'Open Governance and E-Rulemaking: Online Deliberation and Policy-Making in Contemporary Greek Politics', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19331681.2012.746109', "ABSTRACT The Internet and its innovative communicative codes stand at the center of a discussion regarding a new, more participatory, direct, and ?strong? democracy. The widespread use of the Internet and its applications has profound implications on several facets of political life, such as the procedure of rulemaking. In modern, ?large-scale? democracies, the complexity and plurality of political interests seem to be under-represented in official parliamentary procedures. The model of open governance enables citizens to contribute toward how decisions are taken and accordingly democratize rulemaking. At the same time, it increases citizens' ability to exercise control over the elected political representatives. One recent implementation of the idea of an open (e-)government in Greece is the Web site http://www.opengov.gr that was launched by the newly elected government of the Socialist party (PASOK) in October 2009. In this Web site, draft laws per ministry are uploaded, and citizens can upload their comments on every article, expressing their opinion or their disagreement. This online deliberative procedure provides a forum for constructive civic engagement on rulemaking and, moreover, given that the comments are incorporated into the final legal document, gives citizens the chance to affect policy-making to a certain degree. The Web site also provides the opportunity to watch videos of cabinet councils as a fulfillment of transparency in political procedures. This article examines how the premise of open governance is being implemented by the e-rulemaking process on the specific Web site, and assesses its impact on legislation and policy-making issues. ABSTRACT The Internet and its innovative communicative codes stand at the center of a discussion regarding a new, more participatory, direct, and ?strong? democracy. The widespread use of the Internet and its applications has profound implications on several facets of political life, such as the procedure of rulemaking. In modern, ?large-scale? democracies, the complexity and plurality of political interests seem to be under-represented in official parliamentary procedures. The model of open governance enables citizens to contribute toward how decisions are taken and accordingly democratize rulemaking. At the same time, it increases citizens' ability to exercise control over the elected political representatives. One recent implementation of the idea of an open (e-)government in Greece is the Web site http://www.opengov.gr that was launched by the newly elected government of the Socialist party (PASOK) in October 2009. In this Web site, draft laws per ministry are uploaded, and citizens can upload their comments on every article, expressing their opinion or their disagreement. This online deliberative procedure provides a forum for constructive civic engagement on rulemaking and, moreover, given that the comments are incorporated into the final legal document, gives citizens the chance to affect policy-making to a certain degree. The Web site also provides the opportunity to watch videos of cabinet councils as a fulfillment of transparency in political procedures. This article examines how the premise of open governance is being implemented by the e-rulemaking process on the specific Web site, and assesses its impact on legislation and policy-making issues."]
['Desouza, Kevin C. & Bhagwatwar, Akshay', 'Technology-Enabled Participatory Platforms for Civic Engagement: The Case of U.S. Cities', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10630732.2014.954898', 'AbstractTechnology-enabled participatory platforms are proving to be valuable canvases for engaging citizens in solving public-good challenges. Citizens are playing a more active role by either designing platforms themselves or participating on platforms created by public agencies. Unfortunately, our theoretical knowledge about the nature of these platforms is limited. In this paper, we take the first steps towards understanding technology-enabled participatory platforms. Through an exploratory analysis, following the spirit of a grounded theoretic methodology, we examined technology-enabled participatory platforms in the 25 most populated cities in the United States. We deduce four main archetypes?citizen centric and citizen data, citizen centric and government data, government centric and citizen data, and government centric and citizen-developed solutions of technology-enabled participatory platforms. We describe the intricacies of how collective intelligence is leveraged on these platforms. Implications for local government managers and urban planners are discussed. We hypothesize how the future of these platforms might evolve in the not so distant future. AbstractTechnology-enabled participatory platforms are proving to be valuable canvases for engaging citizens in solving public-good challenges. Citizens are playing a more active role by either designing platforms themselves or participating on platforms created by public agencies. Unfortunately, our theoretical knowledge about the nature of these platforms is limited. In this paper, we take the first steps towards understanding technology-enabled participatory platforms. Through an exploratory analysis, following the spirit of a grounded theoretic methodology, we examined technology-enabled participatory platforms in the 25 most populated cities in the United States. We deduce four main archetypes?citizen centric and citizen data, citizen centric and government data, government centric and citizen data, and government centric and citizen-developed solutions of technology-enabled participatory platforms. We describe the intricacies of how collective intelligence is leveraged on these platforms. Implications for local government managers and urban planners are discussed. We hypothesize how the future of these platforms might evolve in the not so distant future.']
['Erti\xc3\xb6, Titiana-Petra', 'Participatory Apps for Urban Planning--Space for Improvement', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02697459.2015.1052942', "Participatory urban planning is considered an important aspect of developing local democracy. Recently, the use of mobile technologies to engage with citizens has gained interest among researchers, policy-makers, and activists. The purpose of this article is to introduce a typology that identifies types of mobile applications (apps) supporting citizen participation in urban planning. The presented typology is developed based on theories of participation and has three dimensions: type of data collected, information flow, and empowerment of citizens. Overall, the typology identifies eight types of participatory apps. Participatory apps in use around the world are then plotted into the typology and their contribution is analyzed with reference to the dimensions of the typology. Apps evolve from sharing information on the surrounding environment towards a dialogue aimed to accommodate citizen knowledge into the planning process. The article concludes that the impact of planning apps has yet been modest, but is expected to increase, and discusses ways in which planning apps can leverage citizens' knowledge in the future. Participatory urban planning is considered an important aspect of developing local democracy. Recently, the use of mobile technologies to engage with citizens has gained interest among researchers, policy-makers, and activists. The purpose of this article is to introduce a typology that identifies types of mobile applications (apps) supporting citizen participation in urban planning. The presented typology is developed based on theories of participation and has three dimensions: type of data collected, information flow, and empowerment of citizens. Overall, the typology identifies eight types of participatory apps. Participatory apps in use around the world are then plotted into the typology and their contribution is analyzed with reference to the dimensions of the typology. Apps evolve from sharing information on the surrounding environment towards a dialogue aimed to accommodate citizen knowledge into the planning process. The article concludes that the impact of planning apps has yet been modest, but is expected to increase, and discusses ways in which planning apps can leverage citizens' knowledge in the future."]
['Felt, Ulrike; Schumann, Simone & Schwarz, Claudia G.', '(Re)assembling Natures, Cultures, and (Nano)technologies in Public Engagement', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09505431.2015.1055720', "AbstractPractices of ordering are powerful means of giving structure to people's lives and providing a sense of control. The analysis of three episodes from discussion groups on nanotechnology in Austria shows that citizens evaluate new technologies with regard to how they intersect with, support, or disturb existing orders. The concept of discursive assemblages serves as a lens for recognising the non-fixed character of the discursive process, while still allowing the analyst to identify how specific elements, such as conceptions of nature, culture, and technology, are (re)assembled at particular moments. Each of the three episodes represents a specific way of creating and negotiating assemblages: the first case demonstrates how discussants collectively discuss a nature?technology hybrid (nano-bamboo socks) against the backdrop of a highly valued ideal of keeping ?the natural? and ?the technological? separate; the second episode exemplifies a clash of two assemblages as participants argued for or against the application of nanotechnology in food products; and the third example illustrates the process of collective experimentation with different assemblages to make sense of a highly futuristic nanochip for brain enhancement. Together the episodes demonstrate that participants in public engagement settings do not address nanotechnology as a simple question of choice between acceptance and rejection but rather engage in processes of care regarding how a society might develop when technological innovations such as nanotechnology threaten to blur existing boundaries and orders, such as the distinction between nature and culture. AbstractPractices of ordering are powerful means of giving structure to people's lives and providing a sense of control. The analysis of three episodes from discussion groups on nanotechnology in Austria shows that citizens evaluate new technologies with regard to how they intersect with, support, or disturb existing orders. The concept of discursive assemblages serves as a lens for recognising the non-fixed character of the discursive process, while still allowing the analyst to identify how specific elements, such as conceptions of nature, culture, and technology, are (re)assembled at particular moments. Each of the three episodes represents a specific way of creating and negotiating assemblages: the first case demonstrates how discussants collectively discuss a nature?technology hybrid (nano-bamboo socks) against the backdrop of a highly valued ideal of keeping ?the natural? and ?the technological? separate; the second episode exemplifies a clash of two assemblages as participants argued for or against the application of nanotechnology in food products; and the third example illustrates the process of collective experimentation with different assemblages to make sense of a highly futuristic nanochip for brain enhancement. Together the episodes demonstrate that participants in public engagement settings do not address nanotechnology as a simple question of choice between acceptance and rejection but rather engage in processes of care regarding how a society might develop when technological innovations such as nanotechnology threaten to blur existing boundaries and orders, such as the distinction between nature and culture."]
['Foth, Marcus; Bajracharya, Bhishna; Brown, Ross & Hearn, Greg', 'The Second Life of urban planning? Using NeoGeography tools for community engagement', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17489720903150016', "The majority of the world's citizens now live in cities. Although urban planning can thus be thought of as a field with significant ramifications on the human condition, many practitioners feel that it has reached the crossroads in thought leadership between traditional practice and a new, more participatory and open approach. Conventional ways to engage people in participatory planning exercises are limited in reach and scope. At the same time, socio-cultural trends and technology innovation offer opportunities to re-think the status quo in urban planning. NeoGeography introduces tools and services that allow non-geographers to use advanced geographical information systems. Similarly, is there a potential for the emergence of a neo-planning paradigm in which urban planning is carried out through active civic engagement aided by Web 2.0 and new media technologies thus redefining the role of practicing planners? This paper traces a number of evolving links between urban planning, NeoGeography and information and communication technology. Two significant trends ? participation and visualisation ? with direct implications for urban planning are discussed. Combining advanced participation and visualisation features, the popular virtual reality environment Second Life is then introduced as a test bed to explore a planning workshop and an integrated software event framework to assist narrative generation. We discuss an approach to harness and analyse narratives using virtual reality logging to make transparent how users understand and interpret proposed urban designs. The majority of the world's citizens now live in cities. Although urban planning can thus be thought of as a field with significant ramifications on the human condition, many practitioners feel that it has reached the crossroads in thought leadership between traditional practice and a new, more participatory and open approach. Conventional ways to engage people in participatory planning exercises are limited in reach and scope. At the same time, socio-cultural trends and technology innovation offer opportunities to re-think the status quo in urban planning. NeoGeography introduces tools and services that allow non-geographers to use advanced geographical information systems. Similarly, is there a potential for the emergence of a neo-planning paradigm in which urban planning is carried out through active civic engagement aided by Web 2.0 and new media technologies thus redefining the role of practicing planners? This paper traces a number of evolving links between urban planning, NeoGeography and information and communication technology. Two significant trends ? participation and visualisation ? with direct implications for urban planning are discussed. Combining advanced participation and visualisation features, the popular virtual reality environment Second Life is then introduced as a test bed to explore a planning workshop and an integrated software event framework to assist narrative generation. We discuss an approach to harness and analyse narratives using virtual reality logging to make transparent how users understand and interpret proposed urban designs."]
['Fredericks, Joel & Foth, Marcus', 'Augmenting public participation: enhancing planning outcomes through the use of social media and web 2.0', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/07293682.2012.748083', "Abstract Social media and web 2.0 tools offer opportunities to devise novel participation strategies that can engage previously difficult to reach, as well as new, segments of society in urban planning. This paper examines participatory planning in the four local government areas of Brisbane City Council, Gold Coast City Council, Redland City Council and Toowoomba Regional Council, all situated in South East Queensland, Australia. The paper discusses how social media and web 2.0 tools can deliver a more engaging planning experience to citizens and investigates local government's current use and receptiveness to social media tools for plan-making and community engagement. The study's research informed the development of criteria to assess the level of participation reached through the current use of social media and web 2.0 in the four local government areas. This resulted in an adaptation of the International Association for Public Participation (IAP2) Toolbox to integrate these new tools, which is being presented to encourage further discussion and evaluation by planning professionals. Abstract Social media and web 2.0 tools offer opportunities to devise novel participation strategies that can engage previously difficult to reach, as well as new, segments of society in urban planning. This paper examines participatory planning in the four local government areas of Brisbane City Council, Gold Coast City Council, Redland City Council and Toowoomba Regional Council, all situated in South East Queensland, Australia. The paper discusses how social media and web 2.0 tools can deliver a more engaging planning experience to citizens and investigates local government's current use and receptiveness to social media tools for plan-making and community engagement. The study's research informed the development of criteria to assess the level of participation reached through the current use of social media and web 2.0 in the four local government areas. This resulted in an adaptation of the International Association for Public Participation (IAP2) Toolbox to integrate these new tools, which is being presented to encourage further discussion and evaluation by planning professionals."]
['Freelon, Deen; Wells, Chris & Bennett, W. Lance', 'Participation in the Youth Civic Web: Assessing User Activity Levels in Web Sites Presenting Two Civic Styles', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19331681.2013.792309', 'ABSTRACT Concerns over youth disengagement from conventional politics mixed with perceptions of youth aptitude for digital media have led scholars and practitioners to investigate civic Web sites as locations of potential youth learning and participation. Over the past few years, the scholarly literature on youth civic Web sites has developed a number of conceptual vocabularies for, and catalogued the nature of, the civic engagement opportunities offered by such sites. But the extant literature lacks documentation of a critically important step in this research logic: the extent to which young users actually take advantage of the opportunities to offered them. This study addresses this gap by presenting a theoretically driven investigation of specific participatory features in the youth civic Web and the quantity of user contributions they attract. Drawing from untested assumptions found in recent work, we test hypotheses concerning the impact on user activity of (a) citizenship orientations communicated by sites and (b) the organizational background of sites. We find that how sites communicate citizenship plays a significant role in determining the quantity of user participation, while the type of organization sponsoring a site makes little difference. We also document the existence of certain ?superstar? sites that attract disproportionate amounts of user content. Directions for future research and methodological issues related to the coding of diverse activity on complex sites and challenges to causal inference are also discussed. ABSTRACT Concerns over youth disengagement from conventional politics mixed with perceptions of youth aptitude for digital media have led scholars and practitioners to investigate civic Web sites as locations of potential youth learning and participation. Over the past few years, the scholarly literature on youth civic Web sites has developed a number of conceptual vocabularies for, and catalogued the nature of, the civic engagement opportunities offered by such sites. But the extant literature lacks documentation of a critically important step in this research logic: the extent to which young users actually take advantage of the opportunities to offered them. This study addresses this gap by presenting a theoretically driven investigation of specific participatory features in the youth civic Web and the quantity of user contributions they attract. Drawing from untested assumptions found in recent work, we test hypotheses concerning the impact on user activity of (a) citizenship orientations communicated by sites and (b) the organizational background of sites. We find that how sites communicate citizenship plays a significant role in determining the quantity of user participation, while the type of organization sponsoring a site makes little difference. We also document the existence of certain ?superstar? sites that attract disproportionate amounts of user content. Directions for future research and methodological issues related to the coding of diverse activity on complex sites and challenges to causal inference are also discussed.']
['Freelon, Deen Goodwin', 'TALKING AMONG THEMSELVES', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2010.495410', 'The character of youth civic engagement on the internet has emerged as a productive topic of study in communication research. Concurrently, a number of recent studies of online forums have found that technological design features can powerfully influence both the form and content of civic discussion. The present study integrates these previously unacquainted literatures, contributing to each by comparing the user content of two online youth engagement forums: one of which tightly manages communication between participants and the other of which grants them far more expressive latitude. The results indicate that technical design matters: significantly more topics of a traditionally civic character were raised in the former than in the latter. Further, the expressive forum elicited twice the number of total posts than its counterpart, although the highly regulated forum attracted significantly more unique users. Notably, the populations posting in the two spaces were almost completely mutually exclusive, with the vast majority of users posting exclusively in one or the other. The implications of these findings are discussed in the context of youth civic forums and youth civic engagement more generally. The character of youth civic engagement on the internet has emerged as a productive topic of study in communication research. Concurrently, a number of recent studies of online forums have found that technological design features can powerfully influence both the form and content of civic discussion. The present study integrates these previously unacquainted literatures, contributing to each by comparing the user content of two online youth engagement forums: one of which tightly manages communication between participants and the other of which grants them far more expressive latitude. The results indicate that technical design matters: significantly more topics of a traditionally civic character were raised in the former than in the latter. Further, the expressive forum elicited twice the number of total posts than its counterpart, although the highly regulated forum attracted significantly more unique users. Notably, the populations posting in the two spaces were almost completely mutually exclusive, with the vast majority of users posting exclusively in one or the other. The implications of these findings are discussed in the context of youth civic forums and youth civic engagement more generally.']
['Freelon, Deen G.; Kriplean, Travis; Morgan, Jonathan; Bennett, W. Lance & Borning, Alan', 'Facilitating Diverse Political Engagement with the Living Voters Guide', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19331681.2012.665755', 'ABSTRACT Unlike 20th-century mass media, the Internet requires self-selection of content by its very nature. This has raised the normative concern that users may opt to encounter only political information and perspectives that accord with their pre-existing views. This study examines the different ways that voters appropriated a new, purpose-built online engagement platform to engage with a wide variety of political opinions and arguments. In a system aimed at helping Washington state citizens make their 2010 election decisions, we find that users take significant advantage of three key opportunities to engage with political diversity: accessing, considering, and producing arguments on both sides of various policy proposals. Notably, engagement with each of these forms of participation drops off as the required level of commitment increases. We conclude by discussing the implications of these results as well as directions for future research. ABSTRACT Unlike 20th-century mass media, the Internet requires self-selection of content by its very nature. This has raised the normative concern that users may opt to encounter only political information and perspectives that accord with their pre-existing views. This study examines the different ways that voters appropriated a new, purpose-built online engagement platform to engage with a wide variety of political opinions and arguments. In a system aimed at helping Washington state citizens make their 2010 election decisions, we find that users take significant advantage of three key opportunities to engage with political diversity: accessing, considering, and producing arguments on both sides of various policy proposals. Notably, engagement with each of these forms of participation drops off as the required level of commitment increases. We conclude by discussing the implications of these results as well as directions for future research.']
['Hao, Xiaoming; Wen, Nainan & George, Cherian', 'News consumption and political and civic engagement among young people', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13676261.2014.901490', "This study examined whether the use of various types of media for news consumption would influence young people's political and civic engagement through a survey of university students in Singapore. The findings showed that news consumption through different platforms related to the respondents' political and civic participation in different ways. Consumption of news through the traditional media was not significantly associated with either offline or online political participation. Instead, news consumption through the Internet and social network sites was significantly associated with both offline and online political and civic engagement and political knowledge. In addition, print and Internet news consumption was found to be significantly associated with political knowledge. Implications of the findings were also discussed. This study examined whether the use of various types of media for news consumption would influence young people's political and civic engagement through a survey of university students in Singapore. The findings showed that news consumption through different platforms related to the respondents' political and civic participation in different ways. Consumption of news through the traditional media was not significantly associated with either offline or online political participation. Instead, news consumption through the Internet and social network sites was significantly associated with both offline and online political and civic engagement and political knowledge. In addition, print and Internet news consumption was found to be significantly associated with political knowledge. Implications of the findings were also discussed."]
['Ho, Shirley S.; Liao, Youqing & Rosenthal, Sonny', 'Applying the Theory of Planned Behavior and Media Dependency Theory: Predictors of Public Pro-environmental Behavioral Intentions in Singapore', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17524032.2014.932819', 'Applying the theory of planned behavior and media dependency theory, this study examines the effects of attitude, subjective norms, perceived behavioral control (PBC), media dependency, traditional media attention, Internet attention, and interpersonal communication on two types of pro-environmental behaviors (PEBs)?green-buying and environmental civic engagement. Regression analysis of a nationally representative survey of adult Singaporeans (N = 1168) indicated that attitude, PBC, media dependency, traditional media attention, and interpersonal communication were positively associated with green-buying. Notably, traditional media attention, as well as interpersonal communication, moderated the influence of media dependency on green-buying behavior. In addition, attitude, descriptive norms, media dependency, Internet attention, and interpersonal communication positively predicted environmental civic engagement. Findings suggest the importance of communication factors in the adoption of the two PEBs. Applying the theory of planned behavior and media dependency theory, this study examines the effects of attitude, subjective norms, perceived behavioral control (PBC), media dependency, traditional media attention, Internet attention, and interpersonal communication on two types of pro-environmental behaviors (PEBs)?green-buying and environmental civic engagement. Regression analysis of a nationally representative survey of adult Singaporeans (N = 1168) indicated that attitude, PBC, media dependency, traditional media attention, and interpersonal communication were positively associated with green-buying. Notably, traditional media attention, as well as interpersonal communication, moderated the influence of media dependency on green-buying behavior. In addition, attitude, descriptive norms, media dependency, Internet attention, and interpersonal communication positively predicted environmental civic engagement. Findings suggest the importance of communication factors in the adoption of the two PEBs.']
['Houghton, Kirralie; Miller, Evonne & Foth, Marcus', 'Integrating ICT into the planning process: impacts, opportunities and challenges', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/07293682.2013.770771', 'One of the most significant lifestyle and technological trends of the twenty-first century is the emergence and increased ubiquity of mobile information and communication technologies (mICT). The potential of mICT raises critical questions for planners, potentially enabling citizen engagement and enhancing the urban planning process through facilitating communication, interaction and collaboration between planning professionals and the public. To date, although technology has become integral to all functions within our urban environment, little is known about how urban planners perceive mICT and its current and potential future role in the planning process. This research explores this knowledge gap, via empirical data gathered from town planners of various sectors based in Queensland. The findings illustrate that these planners believed ICT offered strong potential to share information, creatively build community, connect with users of public spaces and adapt places in swift and temporary ways. This paper explores the issues of integrating mICT into planning practice and the affordances that these technologies offer for community consultation and placemaking. The paper aims to spark a discussion to find the best ways to overcome key barriers to making ICT part of the daily practice of planning professionals, including knowledge, skill, agency and time constraints. One of the most significant lifestyle and technological trends of the twenty-first century is the emergence and increased ubiquity of mobile information and communication technologies (mICT). The potential of mICT raises critical questions for planners, potentially enabling citizen engagement and enhancing the urban planning process through facilitating communication, interaction and collaboration between planning professionals and the public. To date, although technology has become integral to all functions within our urban environment, little is known about how urban planners perceive mICT and its current and potential future role in the planning process. This research explores this knowledge gap, via empirical data gathered from town planners of various sectors based in Queensland. The findings illustrate that these planners believed ICT offered strong potential to share information, creatively build community, connect with users of public spaces and adapt places in swift and temporary ways. This paper explores the issues of integrating mICT into planning practice and the affordances that these technologies offer for community consultation and placemaking. The paper aims to spark a discussion to find the best ways to overcome key barriers to making ICT part of the daily practice of planning professionals, including knowledge, skill, agency and time constraints.']
['Hsieh, Yuli Patrick & Li, Meng-Hao', 'Online political participation, civic talk, and media multiplexity: how Taiwanese citizens express political opinions on the Web', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2013.833278', "This study seeks to assess the implications of the social use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) for online political participation. Past research investigating the link between ICTs and political participation has emphasized the informational use of ICTs, overlooking their communication-enabling potentials for facilitating political talk in interpersonal spaces and subsequently, political participation in public domains. To understand further how ICTs as a means of communication may relate to political participation, we use data from the 2008 Taiwan Social Change Survey (N?=?1076) to examine the relationship between the Internet and online political participation by looking at online media use for social interaction and engagement in civic talk online. Our findings suggest that interpersonal factors such as online civic talk and media multiplexity are positively associated with online political participation. Individuals who discuss politics with their friends via the Internet and those who use more types of online media for social interaction are more likely to contact legislators and elected officials directly via the Web and articulate their political thoughts in online public spaces such as forums, blogs, and websites of news media. We further offer an assessment of the findings' implications for political participation, political communication, and digital inequality. This study seeks to assess the implications of the social use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) for online political participation. Past research investigating the link between ICTs and political participation has emphasized the informational use of ICTs, overlooking their communication-enabling potentials for facilitating political talk in interpersonal spaces and subsequently, political participation in public domains. To understand further how ICTs as a means of communication may relate to political participation, we use data from the 2008 Taiwan Social Change Survey (N?=?1076) to examine the relationship between the Internet and online political participation by looking at online media use for social interaction and engagement in civic talk online. Our findings suggest that interpersonal factors such as online civic talk and media multiplexity are positively associated with online political participation. Individuals who discuss politics with their friends via the Internet and those who use more types of online media for social interaction are more likely to contact legislators and elected officials directly via the Web and articulate their political thoughts in online public spaces such as forums, blogs, and websites of news media. We further offer an assessment of the findings' implications for political participation, political communication, and digital inequality."]
['Huang, Chenchen; Pennington\xe2\x80\x90Gray, Lori; Ko, Yong Jae & Thapa, Brijesh', 'ENGAGING TIMESHARE OWNERS IN TOURISM DESTINATION MANAGEMENT: TOURISM PLANNING AND TOURISM MARKETING IMPLICATIONS', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10548400903534766', "It is important to understand tourists' willingness to participate in tourism planning and the factors influencing their willingness because they are an integral part of the destination and ultimately one of the main buyers of the product. Timeshare owners are a special group of tourists who have additional connections with the tourism destination through their timeshare. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationships among timeshare owners' perceptions of tourism planning, civic engagement, sense of place, and willingness to participate in tourism planning. This study was based on a questionnaire survey of U.S. timeshare owners. The total sample size was 302. A two?stage structural equation modeling approach was applied in data analysis. Results from the measurement model suggested that the model fit the data quite well. Results from the structural model suggested that timeshare owners' perceptions of tourism planning, their past history of civic participation, and their sense of place significantly impact their willingness to participate in tourism planning, while timeshare owners' past experience in political participation did not significantly affect their willingness to participate in tourism planning. Implications of the findings in tourism planning and tourism destination marketing are presented. It is important to understand tourists' willingness to participate in tourism planning and the factors influencing their willingness because they are an integral part of the destination and ultimately one of the main buyers of the product. Timeshare owners are a special group of tourists who have additional connections with the tourism destination through their timeshare. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationships among timeshare owners' perceptions of tourism planning, civic engagement, sense of place, and willingness to participate in tourism planning. This study was based on a questionnaire survey of U.S. timeshare owners. The total sample size was 302. A two?stage structural equation modeling approach was applied in data analysis. Results from the measurement model suggested that the model fit the data quite well. Results from the structural model suggested that timeshare owners' perceptions of tourism planning, their past history of civic participation, and their sense of place significantly impact their willingness to participate in tourism planning, while timeshare owners' past experience in political participation did not significantly affect their willingness to participate in tourism planning. Implications of the findings in tourism planning and tourism destination marketing are presented."]
['J\xc3\xb6uet, Josiane', 'The Internet as a New Civic Form', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13183222.2009.11008998', 'AbstractThe article argues that, beyond the boundaries of activists and concerned citizens, the massive appropriation of the Internet techniques of self-publication and the social modes of interactions on the web, lead to the extension of the public sphere to the rank-and-file. It takes the position that civic culture is not homogeneous and that it is shaped by different social practices that we examine through three sets of digital public spheres. First, the rise of ?free speech? in professional journalistic practices on media websites expands to readers? voices (in forums, online surveys, readers? comments), while citizens? engagement in amateur grassroots journalism challenges both the professional practices and the ethics of journalism. Second, the lively political blogosphere demonstrates how personal opinions on public matters find their legitimacy in the interactive dialogue in and across networks and lead to the emergence of rank-and-fi le opinion leaders, while also presenting various pitfalls, such as the redundancy of a limited number of viewpoints. Third, the social and leisurely Internet usage of ordinary citizens leads them to confront political and public issues in a casual and random manner, which in turn leads them to discuss these matters occasionally in online or face-to-face settings. This trend is reinforced by the innovative creation of user-generated content, mixing text, sound, and video formats that are widely circulated on the web. The rise of new forms of political and social critique on the Internet and the sharing of common experiences in the electronic space results in novel mean of public engagement and contributes to the shaping of a new civic and social form. AbstractThe article argues that, beyond the boundaries of activists and concerned citizens, the massive appropriation of the Internet techniques of self-publication and the social modes of interactions on the web, lead to the extension of the public sphere to the rank-and-file. It takes the position that civic culture is not homogeneous and that it is shaped by different social practices that we examine through three sets of digital public spheres. First, the rise of ?free speech? in professional journalistic practices on media websites expands to readers? voices (in forums, online surveys, readers? comments), while citizens? engagement in amateur grassroots journalism challenges both the professional practices and the ethics of journalism. Second, the lively political blogosphere demonstrates how personal opinions on public matters find their legitimacy in the interactive dialogue in and across networks and lead to the emergence of rank-and-fi le opinion leaders, while also presenting various pitfalls, such as the redundancy of a limited number of viewpoints. Third, the social and leisurely Internet usage of ordinary citizens leads them to confront political and public issues in a casual and random manner, which in turn leads them to discuss these matters occasionally in online or face-to-face settings. This trend is reinforced by the innovative creation of user-generated content, mixing text, sound, and video formats that are widely circulated on the web. The rise of new forms of political and social critique on the Internet and the sharing of common experiences in the electronic space results in novel mean of public engagement and contributes to the shaping of a new civic and social form.']
['Kang, Hyunjin; Lee, Jeong Kyu; You, Kyung Han & Lee, Seoyeon', 'Does Online News Reading and Sharing Shape Perceptions of the Internet as a Place for Public Deliberations?', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15205436.2012.746711', "With the rapid development of interactive communication technology, the Internet is a major source of news and also plays an important role in connecting individual members of society. However, Internet users may have different perspectives on whether the Internet positively functions as a medium for public deliberation. Based on the assumption that being exposed to information on public affairs is a crucial step for one's civic engagement, this study explores how individuals? motives related to news consumption, elaborative online news reading, and online news sharing influence their perceptions of online deliberation using structural equation modeling method (N\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0998). The study finds significant relationships between news consumption motives and elaborative news reading and sharing behaviors, but only elaborative reading behavior had a significant effect on one's perceptions of online deliberation. The implications of these findings are discussed. With the rapid development of interactive communication technology, the Internet is a major source of news and also plays an important role in connecting individual members of society. However, Internet users may have different perspectives on whether the Internet positively functions as a medium for public deliberation. Based on the assumption that being exposed to information on public affairs is a crucial step for one's civic engagement, this study explores how individuals? motives related to news consumption, elaborative online news reading, and online news sharing influence their perceptions of online deliberation using structural equation modeling method (N\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0998). The study finds significant relationships between news consumption motives and elaborative news reading and sharing behaviors, but only elaborative reading behavior had a significant effect on one's perceptions of online deliberation. The implications of these findings are discussed."]
['Kleinhans, Reinout; Van Ham, Maarten & Evans-Cowley, Jennifer', 'Using Social Media and Mobile Technologies to Foster Engagement and Self-Organization in Participatory Urban Planning and Neighbourhood Governance', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02697459.2015.1051320', "This editorial explores the potential of social media and mobile technologies to foster citizen engagement and participation in urban planning. We argue that there is a lot of wishful thinking, but little empirically validated knowledge in this emerging field of study. We outline key developments and pay attention to larger societal and political trends. The aim of this special issue is: 1) To offer a critical state-of-the-art overview of empirical research; and 2) to explore whether social media and mobile technologies have measurable effects on citizens' engagement beyond traditional mobilization and participation tools. We find that wider engagement only ?materializes? if virtual connections also manifest themselves in real space through concrete actions, by using both online and offline engagement tools. Another requirement is that planners do not seek to marginalize dissenting voices in order to promote the interests of powerful developers. This editorial explores the potential of social media and mobile technologies to foster citizen engagement and participation in urban planning. We argue that there is a lot of wishful thinking, but little empirically validated knowledge in this emerging field of study. We outline key developments and pay attention to larger societal and political trends. The aim of this special issue is: 1) To offer a critical state-of-the-art overview of empirical research; and 2) to explore whether social media and mobile technologies have measurable effects on citizens' engagement beyond traditional mobilization and participation tools. We find that wider engagement only ?materializes? if virtual connections also manifest themselves in real space through concrete actions, by using both online and offline engagement tools. Another requirement is that planners do not seek to marginalize dissenting voices in order to promote the interests of powerful developers."]
['Lai, Horng-Ji', 'Examining civil servants\xe2\x80\x99 decisions to use Web 2.0 tools for learning, based on the decomposed theory of planned behavior', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10494820.2015.1121879', "ABSTRACTThe purpose of this study was to investigate the decisions of civil servants to use Web 2.0 applications while engaging in online learning. The participants were 439 civil servants enrolled in asynchronous online learning programs, using an e-learning portal provided by Taiwan's Regional Civil Service Development Institute. The participants completed a questionnaire which measured their responses to 12 constructs (perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, compatibility, peer influence, superior influence, self-efficacy, facilitating conditions, attitude, subjective norm, perceived behavior control, behavior intention, and behavior) based on the decomposed theory of planned behavior. The research results revealed that the participants? perceived usefulness of online learning was the strongest predictor affecting their attitude. Peer influence was also the primary factor influencing their subjective norm. The construct of self-efficacy appeared to be the most important element determining their perceived behavioral control. Also, the results of the path analysis showed that the participants? attitude was the strongest indicator of their behavior intention to use Web 2.0 applications, followed by the perceived behavior control and subjective norm. Theoretical and practical implications and recommendations are provided based on the results of the study. ABSTRACTThe purpose of this study was to investigate the decisions of civil servants to use Web 2.0 applications while engaging in online learning. The participants were 439 civil servants enrolled in asynchronous online learning programs, using an e-learning portal provided by Taiwan's Regional Civil Service Development Institute. The participants completed a questionnaire which measured their responses to 12 constructs (perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, compatibility, peer influence, superior influence, self-efficacy, facilitating conditions, attitude, subjective norm, perceived behavior control, behavior intention, and behavior) based on the decomposed theory of planned behavior. The research results revealed that the participants? perceived usefulness of online learning was the strongest predictor affecting their attitude. Peer influence was also the primary factor influencing their subjective norm. The construct of self-efficacy appeared to be the most important element determining their perceived behavioral control. Also, the results of the path analysis showed that the participants? attitude was the strongest indicator of their behavior intention to use Web 2.0 applications, followed by the perceived behavior control and subjective norm. Theoretical and practical implications and recommendations are provided based on the results of the study."]
['Lam, Busayawan; Chen, Yu Ping; Whittle, Jon; Binner, Jane & Lawlor-Wright, Therese', 'Better Service Design for Greater Civic Engagement', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.2752/175630615X14135446523224', "ABSTRACTGenerally, people have a good understanding of their local areas. Hence, encouraging them to share this tacit knowledge with local authorities, urban designers and city planners could help improve the quality of public space design significantly. However, persuading people to share their concerns/ideas about their areas, especially through a digital platform, presents a real challenge. One of the main barriers is a lack of trust in the public feedback system. Thus, this research investigates relationships between online trust and service design in order to provide a guideline on how to design the feedback system that addresses users' practical and emotional requirements. A mixed-methods approach was employed to identify key factors affecting online trust and their implications on service design. Six key factors affecting online trust were identified and combined to form a basis for service design guidelines. The outcomes show that service design can support all components required to build trust. ABSTRACTGenerally, people have a good understanding of their local areas. Hence, encouraging them to share this tacit knowledge with local authorities, urban designers and city planners could help improve the quality of public space design significantly. However, persuading people to share their concerns/ideas about their areas, especially through a digital platform, presents a real challenge. One of the main barriers is a lack of trust in the public feedback system. Thus, this research investigates relationships between online trust and service design in order to provide a guideline on how to design the feedback system that addresses users' practical and emotional requirements. A mixed-methods approach was employed to identify key factors affecting online trust and their implications on service design. Six key factors affecting online trust were identified and combined to form a basis for service design guidelines. The outcomes show that service design can support all components required to build trust."]
['Lerner, Richard M.; Johnson, Sara K.; Wang, Jun; Ferris, Kaitlyn A. & Hershberg, Rachel M.', 'The Study of the Development of Civic Engagement Within Contemporary Developmental Science: Theory, Method, and Application', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15427609.2015.1013759', 'Within contemporary developmental science, models derived from relational developmental systems metatheory emphasize that the basic process involved in the ontogeny of civic engagement involves mutually-influential and beneficial relations between the developing individual and his or her complex and changing social, cultural, and physical contexts (represented as individual ? ? context relations). The authors suggest that research on the development of civic engagement should be theoretically predicated, use change-sensitive, longitudinal methods, and be comparative across time and place. Using these facets of scholarship as a lens, we discuss the contributions to this special issue. We conclude that the present set of studies provides a useful basis for future research and applications aimed at understanding and promoting individuals? civic contributions, and their support of social organizations promoting individual thriving and freedom, liberty, and social justice. Within contemporary developmental science, models derived from relational developmental systems metatheory emphasize that the basic process involved in the ontogeny of civic engagement involves mutually-influential and beneficial relations between the developing individual and his or her complex and changing social, cultural, and physical contexts (represented as individual ? ? context relations). The authors suggest that research on the development of civic engagement should be theoretically predicated, use change-sensitive, longitudinal methods, and be comparative across time and place. Using these facets of scholarship as a lens, we discuss the contributions to this special issue. We conclude that the present set of studies provides a useful basis for future research and applications aimed at understanding and promoting individuals? civic contributions, and their support of social organizations promoting individual thriving and freedom, liberty, and social justice.']
['Macnamara, Jim', 'The Quadrivium of Online Public Consultation: Policy, Culture, Resources, Technology', 'Taylor', 'http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/10361141003736141', 'Concerned by declining interest, trust, and participation by citizens in democratic politics, governments and political institutions worldwide are turning to the internet in attempts to revitalise democracy through online public consultation and citizen participation, referred to as e-democracy or ?government 2.0?. This paper reports research into the planning and conduct of a series of online public consultation trials launched by the Australian federal government in late 2008, and it compares and contrasts Australian experiences with international e-democracy developments, including the Obama presidential campaign and findings of the Digital Dialogues review of online technologies to enhance citizen engagement in the UK, the UK Power of Information Task Force review, and experiments conducted as part of the MIT Deliberatorium. This paper presents qualitative analysis of findings in 10 areas, which it argues can be further grouped into four main areas of management focus of which technology, often the major topic of discussion, is important but less significant than policy, culture and resources. Concerned by declining interest, trust, and participation by citizens in democratic politics, governments and political institutions worldwide are turning to the internet in attempts to revitalise democracy through online public consultation and citizen participation, referred to as e-democracy or ?government 2.0?. This paper reports research into the planning and conduct of a series of online public consultation trials launched by the Australian federal government in late 2008, and it compares and contrasts Australian experiences with international e-democracy developments, including the Obama presidential campaign and findings of the Digital Dialogues review of online technologies to enhance citizen engagement in the UK, the UK Power of Information Task Force review, and experiments conducted as part of the MIT Deliberatorium. This paper presents qualitative analysis of findings in 10 areas, which it argues can be further grouped into four main areas of management focus of which technology, often the major topic of discussion, is important but less significant than policy, culture and resources.']
['Macnamara, Jim; Sakinofsky, Phyllis & Beattie, Jenni', 'E-electoral Engagement: How Governments Use Social Media to Engage Voters', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10361146.2012.731491', 'Governments worldwide are increasingly attempting to use the internet to engage citizens. After an initial focus on delivery of information and services via what technologists call Web 1.0, strategies referred to as ?Government 2.0? and e-democracy have turned attention to the use of interactive Web 2.0-based ?social media? to engage citizens in consultation and participation to redress a concerning ?democratic deficit? and reinvigorate the public sphere. Even in countries with compulsory voting, such as Australia, electoral enrolment, voter turnout and formal voting are declining. Much focus has been given to expedient political use of social media during election campaigns, but an understudied area is how disengaged citizens and youth can be encouraged to engage or re-engage in democratic participation on an ongoing basis. This article reports analysis of initiatives by national, state and territory electoral commissions in Australia and New Zealand to use social media to engage citizens in political participation. Governments worldwide are increasingly attempting to use the internet to engage citizens. After an initial focus on delivery of information and services via what technologists call Web 1.0, strategies referred to as ?Government 2.0? and e-democracy have turned attention to the use of interactive Web 2.0-based ?social media? to engage citizens in consultation and participation to redress a concerning ?democratic deficit? and reinvigorate the public sphere. Even in countries with compulsory voting, such as Australia, electoral enrolment, voter turnout and formal voting are declining. Much focus has been given to expedient political use of social media during election campaigns, but an understudied area is how disengaged citizens and youth can be encouraged to engage or re-engage in democratic participation on an ongoing basis. This article reports analysis of initiatives by national, state and territory electoral commissions in Australia and New Zealand to use social media to engage citizens in political participation.']
['Mitchell, Katharyne & Elwood, Sarah', 'Engaging Students through Mapping Local History', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00221341.2011.624189', 'Abstract This article argues that the integration of local history and geography through collaborative digital mapping can lead to greater interest in civic participation by early adolescent learners. In the study, twenty-nine middle school students were asked to research, represent, and discuss local urban sites of historical significance on an interactive Web platform. As students learned more about local community events, people, and historical forces, they became increasingly engaged with the material and enthusiastic about making connections to larger issues and processes. In the final session, students expressed interest in participating in their own communities through joining nonprofit organizations and educating others about community history and daily life. Abstract This article argues that the integration of local history and geography through collaborative digital mapping can lead to greater interest in civic participation by early adolescent learners. In the study, twenty-nine middle school students were asked to research, represent, and discuss local urban sites of historical significance on an interactive Web platform. As students learned more about local community events, people, and historical forces, they became increasingly engaged with the material and enthusiastic about making connections to larger issues and processes. In the final session, students expressed interest in participating in their own communities through joining nonprofit organizations and educating others about community history and daily life.']
['Morgan, Edward Alexander & Grant-Smith, Deanna Chantal Cristina', 'Tales of science and defiance: the case for co-learning and collaboration in bridging the science/emotion divide in water recycling debates', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09640568.2014.954691', 'Although science is generally assumed to be well integrated into rational decision-making models, it can be used to destabilise consultative processes, particularly when emotions are involved. Water policies are often seen as debates over technical and engineering issues, but can be highly controversial. Recycled water proposals, in particular, can create highly emotive conflicts. Through a case study regarding the rejection of recycled water proposals in the south-east Queensland, Australia, we explore the influence of science and emotions in contemporary water planning. We highlight the dangers inherent in promoting technical water planning issues at the expense of appropriate consideration of citizen concerns. Combining the science?policy interface and stakeholder engagement literatures, we advocate for collaborative decision-making processes that accommodate emotions and value judgements. A more collaborative stakeholder engagement model, founded on the principles of co-learning, has the potential to broaden the decision-making base and to promote better and more inclusive decision-making. Although science is generally assumed to be well integrated into rational decision-making models, it can be used to destabilise consultative processes, particularly when emotions are involved. Water policies are often seen as debates over technical and engineering issues, but can be highly controversial. Recycled water proposals, in particular, can create highly emotive conflicts. Through a case study regarding the rejection of recycled water proposals in the south-east Queensland, Australia, we explore the influence of science and emotions in contemporary water planning. We highlight the dangers inherent in promoting technical water planning issues at the expense of appropriate consideration of citizen concerns. Combining the science?policy interface and stakeholder engagement literatures, we advocate for collaborative decision-making processes that accommodate emotions and value judgements. A more collaborative stakeholder engagement model, founded on the principles of co-learning, has the potential to broaden the decision-making base and to promote better and more inclusive decision-making.']
['Mpofu, Shepherd', 'When the subaltern speaks: citizen journalism and genocide \xe2\x80\x98victims\xe2\x80\x99\xe2\x80\x99 voices online', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/23743670.2015.1119491', 'ABSTRACTUsing qualitative data drawn from newzimbabwe.com and a listserv comprising mostly Ndebele-speaking people of Zimbabwe, this article investigates how the Web 2.0 era has given subaltern voices platforms to discuss issues rendered taboo in authoritarian contexts. The study is anchored on the concept of the subaltern public sphere and the metaphor of the ?voice? in cyberspace. The subaltern, as used here, refers to those people who perceive themselves as excluded from mainstream power and economic activities. The study uses online observation and critical discourse analysis (CDA) to examine how ?Ndebeles? discuss the 1980s genocide and how citizen journalism has generally revolutionised their participation in debates silenced by the ruling elite. What strongly comes out from the discussants? interactions is that the genocide, which has not been addressed since it ?ended? with the signing of the Unity Accord in 1987, remains contentious as victims have not found closure. The study concludes that Web 2.0 has reconfigured subaltern communities? engagements with the traumatic genocide. ABSTRACTUsing qualitative data drawn from newzimbabwe.com and a listserv comprising mostly Ndebele-speaking people of Zimbabwe, this article investigates how the Web 2.0 era has given subaltern voices platforms to discuss issues rendered taboo in authoritarian contexts. The study is anchored on the concept of the subaltern public sphere and the metaphor of the ?voice? in cyberspace. The subaltern, as used here, refers to those people who perceive themselves as excluded from mainstream power and economic activities. The study uses online observation and critical discourse analysis (CDA) to examine how ?Ndebeles? discuss the 1980s genocide and how citizen journalism has generally revolutionised their participation in debates silenced by the ruling elite. What strongly comes out from the discussants? interactions is that the genocide, which has not been addressed since it ?ended? with the signing of the Unity Accord in 1987, remains contentious as victims have not found closure. The study concludes that Web 2.0 has reconfigured subaltern communities? engagements with the traumatic genocide.']
['Newman, Greg; Zimmerman, Don; Crall, Alycia; Laituri, Melinda; Graham, Jim & Stapel, Linda', 'User-friendly web mapping: lessons from a citizen science website', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13658816.2010.490532', 'Citizen science websites are emerging as a common way for volunteers to collect and report geographic ecological data. Engaging the public in citizen science is challenging and, when involving online participation, data entry, and map use, becomes even more daunting. Given these new challenges, citizen science websites must be easy to use, result in positive overall satisfaction for many different users, support many different tasks, and ensure data quality. To begin reaching these goals, we built a geospatially enabled citizen science website, evaluated its usability, and gained experience by working with and listening to citizens using the website. We sought to determine general perceptions, discover potential problems, and iteratively improve website features. Although the website was rated positively overall, map-based tasks identified a wide range of problems. Given our results, we redesigned the website, improved the content, enhanced the ease of use, simplified the map interface, and added features. We discuss citizen science websites in relation to online Public Participation Geographic Information Systems, examine the role(s) websites may play in the citizen science research model, discuss how citizen science research advances GIScience, and offer guidelines to improve citizen-based web mapping applications. Citizen science websites are emerging as a common way for volunteers to collect and report geographic ecological data. Engaging the public in citizen science is challenging and, when involving online participation, data entry, and map use, becomes even more daunting. Given these new challenges, citizen science websites must be easy to use, result in positive overall satisfaction for many different users, support many different tasks, and ensure data quality. To begin reaching these goals, we built a geospatially enabled citizen science website, evaluated its usability, and gained experience by working with and listening to citizens using the website. We sought to determine general perceptions, discover potential problems, and iteratively improve website features. Although the website was rated positively overall, map-based tasks identified a wide range of problems. Given our results, we redesigned the website, improved the content, enhanced the ease of use, simplified the map interface, and added features. We discuss citizen science websites in relation to online Public Participation Geographic Information Systems, examine the role(s) websites may play in the citizen science research model, discuss how citizen science research advances GIScience, and offer guidelines to improve citizen-based web mapping applications.']
["O'Byrne, Susan & Daymon, Christine", 'Irresponsible Engagement and the Citizen Investor', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1062726X.2014.956105', 'The study investigates how shareholders are constructed and engaged with through public relations in the Australian financial sector. The web sites and annual and sustainability reports of major Australian companies and investment funds were examined through qualitative content analysis. Findings indicate that a hierarchical distinction exists within the discrete but amorphous stakeholder group known as shareholders, where privilege and disadvantage exist alongside disparate levels of power and agency. This is perpetuated by and through irresponsible public relations, which constructs a discourse of ownership that excludes citizens as legitimate stakeholders limiting their capacity to influence more ethical corporate decisions and practices. Recommendations are offered for how public relations might engage shareholders more responsibly. The study investigates how shareholders are constructed and engaged with through public relations in the Australian financial sector. The web sites and annual and sustainability reports of major Australian companies and investment funds were examined through qualitative content analysis. Findings indicate that a hierarchical distinction exists within the discrete but amorphous stakeholder group known as shareholders, where privilege and disadvantage exist alongside disparate levels of power and agency. This is perpetuated by and through irresponsible public relations, which constructs a discourse of ownership that excludes citizens as legitimate stakeholders limiting their capacity to influence more ethical corporate decisions and practices. Recommendations are offered for how public relations might engage shareholders more responsibly.']
['O\xe2\x80\x99Brien, Joseph; Lawrence, Nicholas & Green, Kori', 'To War or Not? Engaging Middle School Students in an Ongoing Online Discussion', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00377996.2013.850051', 'In seeking to prepare students to be ?citizens of a culturally diverse, democratic society in an interdependent world,? teachers engage students in live, online discussions about what justifies war, while at the same time grappling with the requirements to teach the memorization of people, places and isolated events. Teachers and a university professor worked to teach students to think inductively about the justification of war, a theme found in most history curricula. In seeking to prepare students to be ?citizens of a culturally diverse, democratic society in an interdependent world,? teachers engage students in live, online discussions about what justifies war, while at the same time grappling with the requirements to teach the memorization of people, places and isolated events. Teachers and a university professor worked to teach students to think inductively about the justification of war, a theme found in most history curricula.']
['Poorazizi, M. Ebrahim; Steiniger, Stefan & Hunter, Andrew J.S.', 'A service-oriented architecture to enable participatory planning: an e-planning platform', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13658816.2015.1008492', 'Recent advances in Web technologies have opened avenues to create socio-technical platforms that can empower citizens in urban planning processes. The rise of the GeoWeb and the popularity of Web 2.0 collaborative tools can facilitate the development of a new generation of bottom-up Public Participatory GIS (PPGIS) platforms that can incorporate user-generated content into Spatial Data Infrastructures (SDIs). New service-based delivery mechanisms can provide architectural flexibility and adaptability, and enable the public to benefit from ubiquitous information access. From an e-participation perspective, Web 2.0 social networking functions support interactive communication among various PPGIS stakeholders, e.g., citizens, planners, and decision makers. The main contribution of this article is to present a reference architecture for e-planning platforms that (1) facilitates effective e-participation by allowing multidirectional map-based communication among various land development stakeholders (e.g., planners, decision makers, citizens, etc.), and (2) enables incorporation of visualization, evaluation, and discussion capabilities to support community planning processes. To achieve this, we developed a service-oriented architecture (SOA) that exploits SDI principles and Web 2.0 technologies. The platform architecture allows heterogeneous data sources, analytical functionality and tools, and presentation frameworks to be plugged into a coherent system to provide a planning and decision support platform. We present two real-world implementations of the proposed architecture that have been developed to support community engagement in the City of Calgary, Canada. Recent advances in Web technologies have opened avenues to create socio-technical platforms that can empower citizens in urban planning processes. The rise of the GeoWeb and the popularity of Web 2.0 collaborative tools can facilitate the development of a new generation of bottom-up Public Participatory GIS (PPGIS) platforms that can incorporate user-generated content into Spatial Data Infrastructures (SDIs). New service-based delivery mechanisms can provide architectural flexibility and adaptability, and enable the public to benefit from ubiquitous information access. From an e-participation perspective, Web 2.0 social networking functions support interactive communication among various PPGIS stakeholders, e.g., citizens, planners, and decision makers. The main contribution of this article is to present a reference architecture for e-planning platforms that (1) facilitates effective e-participation by allowing multidirectional map-based communication among various land development stakeholders (e.g., planners, decision makers, citizens, etc.), and (2) enables incorporation of visualization, evaluation, and discussion capabilities to support community planning processes. To achieve this, we developed a service-oriented architecture (SOA) that exploits SDI principles and Web 2.0 technologies. The platform architecture allows heterogeneous data sources, analytical functionality and tools, and presentation frameworks to be plugged into a coherent system to provide a planning and decision support platform. We present two real-world implementations of the proposed architecture that have been developed to support community engagement in the City of Calgary, Canada.']
['Rye, St\xc3\xa5le Angen', 'Learning about distant places through the Internet: Young students as global citizens?', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00291951.2013.803260', 'The article explores how the use of the Internet in school settings influences the way young people develop as citizens in an interconnected world and the possible implications for teaching geography subject at school. First, this topic is approached theoretically through a discussion of new forms of citizenship. The issue is investigated by using interview data and observations on the use of the Internet by upper secondary school students in Norway when searching for information about distant places. During the interviews, knowledge about tropical rainforests was used as a practical example. The main finding is that although the students could access information about a large part of the world from their laptop, a distance remained between the students and the rainforests and those who live in them. The article also reveals that, although it is often argued that the national context is weakened as a frame for civic engagement, the students referred to it as a basic frame when engaging with what is distant. Thus, it may be questioned how the use of the Internet in schools contributes to the development of students as global citizens. The article explores how the use of the Internet in school settings influences the way young people develop as citizens in an interconnected world and the possible implications for teaching geography subject at school. First, this topic is approached theoretically through a discussion of new forms of citizenship. The issue is investigated by using interview data and observations on the use of the Internet by upper secondary school students in Norway when searching for information about distant places. During the interviews, knowledge about tropical rainforests was used as a practical example. The main finding is that although the students could access information about a large part of the world from their laptop, a distance remained between the students and the rainforests and those who live in them. The article also reveals that, although it is often argued that the national context is weakened as a frame for civic engagement, the students referred to it as a basic frame when engaging with what is distant. Thus, it may be questioned how the use of the Internet in schools contributes to the development of students as global citizens.']
['Sawhney, Nitin; de Klerk, Christo & Malhotra, Shriya', 'Civic Engagement through DIY Urbanism and Collective Networked Action', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/02697459.2015.1054662', 'In this paper, we examine do-it-yourself (DIY) urbanism through place-based and technology initiatives that support collective networked action to foster civic engagement in neighborhood contexts. The goal is to engage informal and ad-hoc networks of individual and collective actors in productively addressing critical conditions within their urban localities. Based on participatory research and co-design with residents and urban activist groups, Delai Sam and Partizaning, in districts of Moscow, Russia, we devised a series of interventions using a network of mailboxes, prototype online collaboration platforms (SynchroniCITY and MicroAct) and community-based workshops to engage participants in revealing issues, designing solutions and coordinating urban actions. Through these experiences, we consider the challenges of DIY urbanism as an inclusive, sustained and meaningful form of cooperative engagement and urban activism. In this paper, we examine do-it-yourself (DIY) urbanism through place-based and technology initiatives that support collective networked action to foster civic engagement in neighborhood contexts. The goal is to engage informal and ad-hoc networks of individual and collective actors in productively addressing critical conditions within their urban localities. Based on participatory research and co-design with residents and urban activist groups, Delai Sam and Partizaning, in districts of Moscow, Russia, we devised a series of interventions using a network of mailboxes, prototype online collaboration platforms (SynchroniCITY and MicroAct) and community-based workshops to engage participants in revealing issues, designing solutions and coordinating urban actions. Through these experiences, we consider the challenges of DIY urbanism as an inclusive, sustained and meaningful form of cooperative engagement and urban activism.']
['Shaw, Aileen; Brady, Bernadine; McGrath, Brian; Brennan, Mark A. & Dolan, Pat', 'Understanding youth civic engagement: debates, discourses, and lessons from practice', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15575330.2014.931447', 'While civic engagement provides a rich rationale for intervention, the array of discourses urging a focus on youth engagement or action means that the concept can be confusing, cluttered, and lacking consistent operationalization. From the perspective of policy-makers and program managers, it can be challenging to disentangle the competing messages and assumptions about young people that underpin the rhetoric in relation to youth engagement. Using a wide range of international research, the purpose of this paper is to provide clarity regarding the key multiple concepts and issues pertinent to the concept of youth civic engagement. In particular, the paper answers the following questions: what are the definitions, typologies, and discourses in which the concept of youth civic engagement operates, and what are the putative beneficial outcomes of youth engagement identified? We also discuss some of the broader considerations on the positioning of young people in society, which impact the trajectory of civic engagement efforts. As a means for reflecting on their own practices, programs, and approaches, our intent is to provide those involved in both the application and research of youth engagement with a more coherent roadmap of the diversity residing in this field. While civic engagement provides a rich rationale for intervention, the array of discourses urging a focus on youth engagement or action means that the concept can be confusing, cluttered, and lacking consistent operationalization. From the perspective of policy-makers and program managers, it can be challenging to disentangle the competing messages and assumptions about young people that underpin the rhetoric in relation to youth engagement. Using a wide range of international research, the purpose of this paper is to provide clarity regarding the key multiple concepts and issues pertinent to the concept of youth civic engagement. In particular, the paper answers the following questions: what are the definitions, typologies, and discourses in which the concept of youth civic engagement operates, and what are the putative beneficial outcomes of youth engagement identified? We also discuss some of the broader considerations on the positioning of young people in society, which impact the trajectory of civic engagement efforts. As a means for reflecting on their own practices, programs, and approaches, our intent is to provide those involved in both the application and research of youth engagement with a more coherent roadmap of the diversity residing in this field.']
['Shklovski, Irina & Valtysson, Bjarki', 'Secretly Political: Civic Engagement in Online Publics in Kazakhstan', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08838151.2012.705196', "The proliferation of networked forms of communication has captured the attention of media and scholars alike. We have never had quite as many resources for communication as we have today, and such communicative potential has implications for social change. In this article we consider public spheres that emerge through communication in the digital realm, paying attention to how networked publics operate within such spheres. We present results from a study of a popular local online discussion forum in Kazakhstan. Steeped in Habermas's idea of the public sphere, this study focuses on cultural public spheres defined through engagement and participation of diverse publics. We consider a range of publics that might emerge, such as mundane-publics, issue-publics, and counter-publics and how these differ in their content and purpose. While the majority of work on networked publics has been situated in states with democratic forms of governance, we consider whether similar constructions are possible in an authoritarian state. We find that networked publics are not only present in an environment rife with online blocking and censorship, but take on a range of forms, generating participation that can at times result in substantial social change, despite the inability to hold open political discussions online. The proliferation of networked forms of communication has captured the attention of media and scholars alike. We have never had quite as many resources for communication as we have today, and such communicative potential has implications for social change. In this article we consider public spheres that emerge through communication in the digital realm, paying attention to how networked publics operate within such spheres. We present results from a study of a popular local online discussion forum in Kazakhstan. Steeped in Habermas's idea of the public sphere, this study focuses on cultural public spheres defined through engagement and participation of diverse publics. We consider a range of publics that might emerge, such as mundane-publics, issue-publics, and counter-publics and how these differ in their content and purpose. While the majority of work on networked publics has been situated in states with democratic forms of governance, we consider whether similar constructions are possible in an authoritarian state. We find that networked publics are not only present in an environment rife with online blocking and censorship, but take on a range of forms, generating participation that can at times result in substantial social change, despite the inability to hold open political discussions online."]
['Simmons, W. Michele & Zoetewey, Meredith W.', 'Productive Usability: Fostering Civic Engagement and Creating More Useful Online Spaces for Public Deliberation', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10572252.2012.673953', 'This article offers productive usability as a usability approach that focuses on the usefulness of civic Web sites. Although some sites meet traditional usability standards, civic sites might fail to support technical literacy, productive inquiry, collaboration, and a multidimensional perspective?all essential ingredients for citizen-initiated change online. In this article, we map productive usability onto broader philosophies of usability and offer a framework for rethinking usability in civic settings and for teaching productive usability. This article offers productive usability as a usability approach that focuses on the usefulness of civic Web sites. Although some sites meet traditional usability standards, civic sites might fail to support technical literacy, productive inquiry, collaboration, and a multidimensional perspective?all essential ingredients for citizen-initiated change online. In this article, we map productive usability onto broader philosophies of usability and offer a framework for rethinking usability in civic settings and for teaching productive usability.']
['Somdahl-Sands, Katrinka & Belbas, Brad', 'Media representation of the Middle East: constructive student engagement in an online environment', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17439884.2011.567990', "As educators interested in pedagogical uses of technology, we utilize the internet to improve students' knowledge and awareness of the world beyond our own national borders. Web-based technologies offer us resources for our courses and can play an important role in promoting a more active style of learning from our students. Yet when teaching about politically sensitive topics, or regions of the world that are less well known, we inevitably access information that is unfiltered, out-of-context, inaccurate, or biased. This paper will be an exploration of how we taught students to critically engage with each other and with online media sources through a class blog discussing the violence in Gaza during January of 2009. During the two-week project, the students investigated this new media landscape (from blogs to YouTube) increasing their levels of techno-literacy by searching beyond their ?normal? sources and by recognizing the political bias present in all online venues. Evidence will show how the students went from passive consumers of networked information to active citizen participants as they expressed their opinions, countered each other's sources, and worked out how to fundamentally disagree without losing civility. The paper will detail the pedagogical practices and challenges to creating online spaces for constructive argumentation about highly volatile issues. As educators interested in pedagogical uses of technology, we utilize the internet to improve students' knowledge and awareness of the world beyond our own national borders. Web-based technologies offer us resources for our courses and can play an important role in promoting a more active style of learning from our students. Yet when teaching about politically sensitive topics, or regions of the world that are less well known, we inevitably access information that is unfiltered, out-of-context, inaccurate, or biased. This paper will be an exploration of how we taught students to critically engage with each other and with online media sources through a class blog discussing the violence in Gaza during January of 2009. During the two-week project, the students investigated this new media landscape (from blogs to YouTube) increasing their levels of techno-literacy by searching beyond their ?normal? sources and by recognizing the political bias present in all online venues. Evidence will show how the students went from passive consumers of networked information to active citizen participants as they expressed their opinions, countered each other's sources, and worked out how to fundamentally disagree without losing civility. The paper will detail the pedagogical practices and challenges to creating online spaces for constructive argumentation about highly volatile issues."]
['Trapenberg Frick, Karen', 'Citizen activism, conservative views & mega planning in a digital era', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/14649357.2015.1125520', 'AbstractScholarship on citizen activism in a digital era is growing exponentially in sociology, political science, and communications/new media studies. Theorists observe changing dynamics and power shifts within a public virtual sphere. In contrast, planning scholarship is sparse on how citizens use technology outside of official channels to participate and mobilize. To explore this under-studied phenomenon, a new conceptual framework is developed by synthesizing literature across disciplines to examine digital networked activism in planning and focusing on conservative activists? fierce opposition to regional planning in Atlanta, Georgia and the San Francisco Bay Area. I find activists use new media in combination with traditional strategies to communicate, organize, market their cause and refine tactics. The new media facilitates their channeling of deeply held emotions into the production, performance and circulation of counter-narratives that destabilize the planning process as conventionally understood. Planners? responses are largely reactive and catching up to the challenge. As a result, planners I interviewed are rethinking civic engagement in a digital era. AbstractScholarship on citizen activism in a digital era is growing exponentially in sociology, political science, and communications/new media studies. Theorists observe changing dynamics and power shifts within a public virtual sphere. In contrast, planning scholarship is sparse on how citizens use technology outside of official channels to participate and mobilize. To explore this under-studied phenomenon, a new conceptual framework is developed by synthesizing literature across disciplines to examine digital networked activism in planning and focusing on conservative activists? fierce opposition to regional planning in Atlanta, Georgia and the San Francisco Bay Area. I find activists use new media in combination with traditional strategies to communicate, organize, market their cause and refine tactics. The new media facilitates their channeling of deeply held emotions into the production, performance and circulation of counter-narratives that destabilize the planning process as conventionally understood. Planners? responses are largely reactive and catching up to the challenge. As a result, planners I interviewed are rethinking civic engagement in a digital era.']
['Wallen, Matthew R. & Pandit, Abhay S.', 'Encouraging undergraduate engineering students towards civic engagement', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/03043790902829299', 'Responding to the calls for teaching ?soft skills? within the undergraduate engineering curriculum and for the university to address a perceived decrease in social capital, a programme titled Community Awareness Initiatives Responsibly Directed by Engineers (CAIRDE, an Irish language word meaning ?friends?) was instituted at the National University of Ireland, Galway. As part of a mandatory module in the Mechanical and Biomedical undergraduate programmes, students carry out self-directed projects involving community action (service) and application of knowledge (students? prior learning). This paper reports on an evaluative research study focussed on understanding the participating students? experiences. Among findings related to students? perceptions as future professionals, students describe a growing awareness of the need for collaboration and the positive value of engagement with the community as knowledgeable end-users of their designs. The paper concludes by suggesting greater integration of this type of pedagogy for civic engagement across the curriculum. Responding to the calls for teaching ?soft skills? within the undergraduate engineering curriculum and for the university to address a perceived decrease in social capital, a programme titled Community Awareness Initiatives Responsibly Directed by Engineers (CAIRDE, an Irish language word meaning ?friends?) was instituted at the National University of Ireland, Galway. As part of a mandatory module in the Mechanical and Biomedical undergraduate programmes, students carry out self-directed projects involving community action (service) and application of knowledge (students? prior learning). This paper reports on an evaluative research study focussed on understanding the participating students? experiences. Among findings related to students? perceptions as future professionals, students describe a growing awareness of the need for collaboration and the positive value of engagement with the community as knowledgeable end-users of their designs. The paper concludes by suggesting greater integration of this type of pedagogy for civic engagement across the curriculum.']
['Warren, Anne Marie; Sulaiman, Ainin & Jaafar, Noor Ismawati', 'Understanding civic engagement behaviour on Facebook from a social capital theory perspective', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/0144929X.2014.934290', 'This paper applies the social capital theory to construct a model for investigating the factors that influence online civic engagement behaviour on Facebook. While there is promising evidence that people are making concerted efforts to adopt Facebook to address social issues, research on their civic behaviour from a social capital viewpoint in the social media context remains limited. This study introduces new insights into how Facebook is shaping the landscape of civic engagement by examining three dimensions of social capital ? social interaction ties (structural), trust (relational), and shared languages and vision (cognitive). The study contends that these dimensions will influence individuals? online civic engagement behaviour on Facebook. We also argue that social interaction ties can engender trust, and shared languages and vision among its members, and that shared languages and vision can increase trust among Facebook members. Empirical data collected from 1233 Facebook users provide support for the proposed model. The results help in identifying the motivation underlying the online civic engagement behaviour of individuals in a public virtual community. The implications for theory and practice and future research directions are discussed. This paper applies the social capital theory to construct a model for investigating the factors that influence online civic engagement behaviour on Facebook. While there is promising evidence that people are making concerted efforts to adopt Facebook to address social issues, research on their civic behaviour from a social capital viewpoint in the social media context remains limited. This study introduces new insights into how Facebook is shaping the landscape of civic engagement by examining three dimensions of social capital ? social interaction ties (structural), trust (relational), and shared languages and vision (cognitive). The study contends that these dimensions will influence individuals? online civic engagement behaviour on Facebook. We also argue that social interaction ties can engender trust, and shared languages and vision among its members, and that shared languages and vision can increase trust among Facebook members. Empirical data collected from 1233 Facebook users provide support for the proposed model. The results help in identifying the motivation underlying the online civic engagement behaviour of individuals in a public virtual community. The implications for theory and practice and future research directions are discussed.']
['Wells, Chris', 'CITIZENSHIP AND COMMUNICATION IN ONLINE YOUTH CIVIC ENGAGEMENT PROJECTS', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13691180902833208', 'This study analyses 36 online civic engagement websites for youth to understand the civic skills and communication opportunities offered to youth in different online environments. The research design draws on recent theoretical work on citizen identity and the design features of online communities to develop a picture of online engagement projects in two dimensions: the model of citizenship encouraged and the style of communication available to users. Results suggest that the citizenship styles inscribed in sites are correlated with the styles of communication the sites offer. In particular, sites that present more conventional civic skills, such as appealing to government for solutions to problems, tend to heavily control how users use the sites; in contrast, those that present citizenship as a broader, expressive engagement with issues and culture are less inclined to define the terms of users? interactions. This article discusses the implications of the findings for understanding how online civic projects succeed or fail to connect with young people, the possibility of creating sites that both appeal to young people and offer important civic skills, and directions for future study and practice. This study analyses 36 online civic engagement websites for youth to understand the civic skills and communication opportunities offered to youth in different online environments. The research design draws on recent theoretical work on citizen identity and the design features of online communities to develop a picture of online engagement projects in two dimensions: the model of citizenship encouraged and the style of communication available to users. Results suggest that the citizenship styles inscribed in sites are correlated with the styles of communication the sites offer. In particular, sites that present more conventional civic skills, such as appealing to government for solutions to problems, tend to heavily control how users use the sites; in contrast, those that present citizenship as a broader, expressive engagement with issues and culture are less inclined to define the terms of users? interactions. This article discusses the implications of the findings for understanding how online civic projects succeed or fail to connect with young people, the possibility of creating sites that both appeal to young people and offer important civic skills, and directions for future study and practice.']
['Wu, Jingsi Christina', 'Expanding civic engagement in China: Super Girl and entertainment-based online community', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/1369118X.2013.833276', "This article pursues a context-rich understanding of how digital media offer unique opportunities for citizens residing in mainland China to participate in civic engagement and organize their civic values. While the Chinese state authority keeps a heavy hand in any form of media, old or new, for use of overt political expressions, I provide empirical demonstration of the link between entertainment media experiences and the exchange on more serious civic topics. In doing so, I argue for a more expanded notion of civic engagement for political environments such as China and develop an empirical scheme that incorporates ordinary citizens' interactions with more leisure-oriented media texts. Such theoretical and empirical moves, as I point out, can contribute to a more thoughtful discussion of the Internet and civic engagement in China. Furthermore, this article pays particular attention to how the Internet provides a valuable channel for community formation among ordinary Chinese citizens outside the mainstream media, which are mostly occupied by state elites. My examination suggests that the Internet helps online discussants reach further depth in their extension from entertainment discussion to constructing serious discourses on important social issues, more so than the mainstream newspapers. This article pursues a context-rich understanding of how digital media offer unique opportunities for citizens residing in mainland China to participate in civic engagement and organize their civic values. While the Chinese state authority keeps a heavy hand in any form of media, old or new, for use of overt political expressions, I provide empirical demonstration of the link between entertainment media experiences and the exchange on more serious civic topics. In doing so, I argue for a more expanded notion of civic engagement for political environments such as China and develop an empirical scheme that incorporates ordinary citizens' interactions with more leisure-oriented media texts. Such theoretical and empirical moves, as I point out, can contribute to a more thoughtful discussion of the Internet and civic engagement in China. Furthermore, this article pays particular attention to how the Internet provides a valuable channel for community formation among ordinary Chinese citizens outside the mainstream media, which are mostly occupied by state elites. My examination suggests that the Internet helps online discussants reach further depth in their extension from entertainment discussion to constructing serious discourses on important social issues, more so than the mainstream newspapers."]
['Zhang, Weiyu & Mao, Chengting', 'Fan activism sustained and challenged: participatory culture in Chinese online translation communities', 'Taylor', 'http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/17544750.2013.753499', 'Henry Jenkins, in Convergence Culture, argues that ?[p]opular culture may be preparing the way for a more meaningful public culture?. This article examines this argument in the context of online translation communities in China, which originated from fan groups interested in foreign comics, games, movies, and television dramas. Drawing on evidence collected through participant observation and 23 in-depth interviews, this article first reviews the historical development and the structural layout of such online translation communities. It then focuses on the motivations of their members to contribute to the translation tasks, which show that personal interests speak louder than collective goals. Finally, it analyzes how the collaboration structure, mindset of collaboration, skills, and sense of agency are transferred from translating entertainment content to civic education content (i.e. open courses). Participatory culture fostered through fan activities is found to be transferred into civic engagement; however, the transfer between fan activism and political participation is yet to be seen. Henry Jenkins, in Convergence Culture, argues that ?[p]opular culture may be preparing the way for a more meaningful public culture?. This article examines this argument in the context of online translation communities in China, which originated from fan groups interested in foreign comics, games, movies, and television dramas. Drawing on evidence collected through participant observation and 23 in-depth interviews, this article first reviews the historical development and the structural layout of such online translation communities. It then focuses on the motivations of their members to contribute to the translation tasks, which show that personal interests speak louder than collective goals. Finally, it analyzes how the collaboration structure, mindset of collaboration, skills, and sense of agency are transferred from translating entertainment content to civic education content (i.e. open courses). Participatory culture fostered through fan activities is found to be transferred into civic engagement; however, the transfer between fan activism and political participation is yet to be seen.']
[u'How Do Online Citizens Persuade Fellow Voters? Using Twitter During the 2012 Dutch Parliamentary Election Campaign', u'Hosch-Dayican, B (Hosch-Dayican, Bengue); Amrit, C (Amrit, Chintan); Aarts, K (Aarts, Kees); Dassen, A (Dassen, Adrie)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article explores how Twitter was used by voters to participate in electoral campaigning during the Dutch election campaign of 2012. New social media networks like Twitter are believed to be efficient tools of communication between electoral candidates and voters during electoral campaign periods. Yet only few studies have been conducted so far to discover in what way the content of online discussions is being used for campaigning. In particular, there have been very few studies of electoral campaigning, which study the content of the social media messages sent by citizens. In order to understand the extent to which citizens utilize Twitter in different forms of electoral campaigningthat is, persuading followers about voting for a particular party or to conduct negative campaigning, we conducted an automated content analysis of a large corpus of tweets collected during the Dutch parliamentary election campaign of 2012. Our findings show that citizens participate significantly in online electoral campaigning on Twitter, whereas they differ from professional users in the style of campaigning. Persuasive campaigning is observed to a lesser extent among citizens than among politicians, while citizens more commonly use negative campaigning. Moreover, qualitative content analysis of campaigning tweets by citizens has revealed that expressions of emotions and opinions make up a large majority of negative tweets, indicating that citizens regard Twitter more as an outlet for expressing discontent than as a medium for negative campaigning.']
[u'Combining Citizen Participation and Expert Analysis: A Wild, Wild Horses Problem in British Columbia', u'Brydon, M (Brydon, Michael); Vining, AR (Vining, Aidan R.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Local governments face increasingly complex decisions and must inevitably rely on professional staff with specialised knowledge. However, ordinary citizens and stakeholders are demanding the right to directly participate in governmental decisions. What is the appropriate division of labour? The article proposes a practical approach to participatory decision making that tries to combine administrative efficiency and democratic legitimacy. The approach decomposes the decision problem into a number of discrete stages. An action research methodology is used to illustrate the application of the method. Specifically, we decompose a roaming horse' problem in the interior of British Columbia to identify the information requirements for each stage of the model. We use a series of web-based Delphi surveys to elicit specific information from citizens regarding objectives and potential alternatives. The survey results suggest that a relatively simple and cost-effective deliberative tool like Delphi can facilitate an effective division of labour between citizens and government experts."]
[u'The Swedish mass experiments - a way of encouraging scientific citizenship?', u'Kasperowski, D (Kasperowski, Dick); Brouneus, F (Brouneus, Fredrik)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Since 2009 Vetenskap & Allmanhet (Public & Science, VA) coordinates an annual mass experiment as part of ForskarFredag - the Swedish events on the European Researchers' Night. Through the experiments, thousands of Swedish students from preschool to upper secondary school have contributed to the development of scientific knowledge on, for example, the acoustic environment in classrooms, children's and adolescents' perception of hazardous environments and the development of autumn leaves in deciduous trees. The aim is to stimulate scientific literacy and an interest in science while generating scientific output. The essay discusses how the mass experiments can contribute to encouraging scientific citizenship."]
[u'Communities of Interest-Interest of Communities: Social and Semantic Analysis of Communities in Infrastructure Discussion Networks', u'Nik-Bakht, M (Nik-Bakht, Mazdak); El-Diraby, TE (El-diraby, Tamer E.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The process of public consultation for planning and construction of sustainable urban infrastructure requires a bidirectional communication among as many stakeholders of the project as possible. In modern infrastructure projects, social web and online social media play an important role in involving citizens through what is referred to as "microparticipation." However, the social network which is formed behind the scene of microparticipation is usually ignored by both researchers and practitioners. This article combines community detection in social networks with information retrieval methods, to detect and label communities of project followers and cores of interest in the network of urban infrastructure project stakeholders. We study dynamics of the network and its communities by monitoring them over time. This technique is used to analyze followers of a Light Rail Transit (LRT) project in microblogging website Twitter and profile them based on their interests and ideas they support. Although methods of this article can be readily applied to other cases where connectivity of project followers and their descriptions are retrievable, our work is mainly interested in how to analyze Twitter discussions without any assumption that they replace the other online or offline means of public involvement in infrastructure projects. This article is an extended version of a conference paper that appeared as Nik Bakht & El-Diraby, 2013(2).']
[u'Online political public relations and trust: Source and interactivity effects in the 2012 US presidential campaign', u'Painter, DL (Painter, David Lynn)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This experimental investigation (N=476) parses the influence of information source and interactivity on the effects of the 2012 United States presidential candidates' online campaign communications on citizen-campaign political organization-public relations and political trust. The results indicate Facebook is differentially more effective than campaign websites at building both citizens' relationships with the campaigns and trust in government, especially among users who engage in expressive behaviors triggering higher levels of elaboration and self-awareness. These findings support the direction of the exposure effects in the political organization-public relations model and extend two-way communication models by testing the influence of interactivity and specifying the online platform on which political expression exerts the greatest effects on relational outcomes and political trust. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."]
[u'From everyday conversation to political action: Talking austerity in online "third spaces\'', u'Graham, T (Graham, Todd); Jackson, D (Jackson, Daniel); Wright, S (Wright, Scott)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Taking forward a new agenda for online political deliberation - the study of everyday political talk in non-political, online third spaces' - this article examines the dynamics of political talk across three general interest UK-based online forums. The quantitative analysis found that discussions about austerity were just as likely to emerge from non-political discussions as they were ones that began as political', demonstrating the links people made between everyday experiences and public policy. Our qualitative analysis represents the first real attempt to analyse political actions within third spaces, with some striking outcomes. Over half of all political discussions led to at least one political action (with significant variation between forums). The findings demonstrate that while such third spaces remain concerned with the preoccupations of everyday life, they can and do perform a role of mobilizing agent towards political participation."]
[u'"Random acts of journalism?": How citizen journalists tell the news in Sweden', u'Holt, K (Holt, Kristoffer); Karlsson, M (Karlsson, Michael)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'In this study, the results from a content analysis of four Swedish online citizen journalism outlets are presented and discussed. The analysis focuses on new digital venues for news-making in theory and the question of the political relevance of citizen journalism in reality. This broad question is operationalized by asking more specifically how citizen journalists tell the news, according to established distinctions between variations in topic dimensions, focus, and presentational style. Our results show that citizen journalists tend to tell soft news. They rarely report on policy issues, local authorities, or people affected by decisions being made by them. Furthermore, the news focuses on individual relevance and is mostly episodic in nature. The style of writing is predominantly impersonal and unemotional. In sum, our results suggest that citizen journalism in Sweden is not yet at a stage where it can be considered a plausible alternative to traditional journalism.']
[u'Public Participation Organizations and Open Policy: A Constitutional Moment for British Democracy?', u'Pallett, H (Pallett, Helen)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article builds on work in Science and Technology Studies and cognate disciplines concerning the institutionalization of public engagement and participation practices. It describes and analyses ethnographic qualitative research into one organization of participation, the UK government-funded Sciencewise program. Sciencewise's interactions with broader political developments are explored, including the emergence of open policy as a key policy object in the UK context. The article considers what the new imaginary of openness means for institutionalized forms of public participation in science policymaking, asking whether this is illustrative of a constitutional moment in relations between society and science policymaking."]
[u'Mining citizen emotions to estimate the urgency of urban issues', u'Masdeval, C (Masdeval, Christian); Veloso, A (Veloso, Adriano)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Crowdsourcing technology offers exciting possibilities for local governments. Specifically, citizens are increasingly taking part in reporting and discussing issues related to their neighborhood and problems they encounter on a daily basis, such as overflowing trashbins, broken footpaths and lifts, illegal graffiti, and potholes. Pervasive citizen participation enables local governments to respond more efficiently to these urban issues. This interaction between citizens and municipalities is largely promoted by civic engagement platforms, such as See-Click-Fix, FixMyStreet, CitySourced, and OpenIDEO, which allow citizens to report urban issues by entering free text describing what needs to be done, fixed or changed. In order to develop appropriate action plans and priorities, government officials need to figure out how urgent are the reported issues. In this paper we propose to estimate the urgency of urban issues by mining different emotions that are implicit in the text describing the issue. More specifically, a reported issue is first categorized according to the emotions expressed in it, and then the corresponding emotion scores are combined in order to produce a final urgency level for the reported issue. Our experiments use the SeeClickFix hackathon data and diverse emotion classification algorithms. They indicate that (i) emotions can be categorized efficiently with supervised learning algorithms, and (ii) the use of citizen emotions leads to accurate urgency estimates. Further, using additional features such as the type of issue or its author leads to no further accuracy gains. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.']
[u"Beyond lifestyle politics in a time of crisis?: comparing young peoples' issue agendas and views on inequality", u'Vromen, A (Vromen, Ariadne); Loader, BD (Loader, Brian D.); Xenos, MA (Xenos, Michael A.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Contemporary research on young people and politics portrays their political engagement as: individualised not collectivist; issue-driven not ideology-driven and postmaterialist instead of materialist. This shift towards lifestyle politics' is assumed to be universal among young people, rather than shaped by traditional social cleavages and structures. This paper investigates these assumptions and asks whether young people's experience of national economic austerity and increasing material inequality shapes the everyday political issues they identify with, and how they understand inequality and the distribution of resources in their societies. The analysis is based on responses to an open-ended question on key political issues of importance, in surveys of representative samples of 1200 young people aged 16-29 in 3 countries: Australia, the UK and the USA. Afterwards, we conducted online discussion groups with 107 young people, in which they were asked to discuss changes in the nature of equality in their societies. The findings show that there is a complex interdependence between individualised, everyday understandings of economic change and an identity-based politics of equal rights. However, there are nuanced differences in understanding inequality, dependent on young people's national location and socioeconomic background. The implications these findings have for young people's future political engagement are discussed."]
[u'Crowdsourcing urban sustainability. Data, people and technologies in participatory governance', u'Certoma, C (Certoma, Chiara); Corsini, F (Corsini, Filippo); Rizzi, F (Rizzi, Francesco)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The aim of this paper is to prefigure the future of urban sustainability governance by implementing crowdsourcing-based solutions for governance processes. We explore the convergence between recent research in urban sustainability governance and crowdsourcing. This is done by reviewing the literature in order to acquire important evidence to support the inductive process of theory building, and to highlight the upcoming trends in participatory research and policy-making that exploit ICI' and Web 2.0 social software.Our analysis indicates that a transformative relationship between data and people creates new forms of distant search for solutions and decision making. We argue that interest in crowdsourcing has expanded from computing researches to social and environmental applications. This new practical dimension unlocks the futures of integration of crowdsourcing into best practices in the governance of sustainability in an urban context.Building on evidence that implementing crowdsourcing into the forthcoming governance of urban sustainability is increasingly recognised as a common priority, the paper suggests policy makers to devote more resources to ensure openness, transparency, interoperability and adaptability of crowdsourcing platforms. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."]
[u'The sociodemographics of political public deliberation: Measuring deliberative quality in different user groups', u'Klinger, U (Klinger, Ulrike); Russmann, U (Russmann, Uta)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Governments and local administrations increasingly use the internet to improve citizens' participation in deliberation processes. However, research studies have pointed out that deliberation outcomes vary due to the participants' sociodemographic differences. In this paper, we address this debate by quantitatively measuring different sociodemographic participant groups' deliberation quality. By building an index of the quality of understanding (IQU), we analyze the quality of 1,991 postings on local political issues that participants contributed during the 2011 Zurich City debate. We defined five indicators for deliberation quality: statement of reasons, proposals for solutions, respect, doubts, and reciprocity. The analysis confirms that the sociodemographic composition of the participants is of great importance for self-selected participation and deliberation quantity, but not for the deliberation quality."]
[u'Top 10 US Municipal Police Departments and Their Social Media Usage', u'Brainard, L (Brainard, Lori); Edlins, M (Edlins, Mariglynn)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Social media technologies present a new way for government agencies to connect with, and potentially collaborate with, their residents. Police departments (PDs) are a setting ripe for use of social media as an extension of their community policing efforts. In this article, we explore the use of social media by PDs in the top 10 most populous U.S. cities. We analyze police-initiated posts on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube over a 3-month period to determine what accounts PDs use, if they use social media for information transmission or interaction, and if they use the accounts for dialogue that might make collaboration possible. We find that while PDs have and use social media, and while citizens are responsive, there is much less interaction in part due to nonresponsiveness of PDs themselves. We thus conclude that though the existence of some PD-resident dialogue is promising, very little was collaborative.']
[u'Political participation via social media: a case study of deliberative quality in the public online budgeting process of Frankfurt/Main, Germany 2013', u'Pieper, AK (Pieper, Alice Katharina); Pieper, M (Pieper, Michael)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'If social media are to reinforce sustainability of political decisions, their design has conceptually to take into account the implications of deliberative democracy, which stresses the active cooperation of virtually all citizens of a democracy for the purposes of participatory involvement. Essential to deliberative e-democracy is therefore a technologically supported comprehensive discourse about political subjects which is also called deliberation. Theoretical implications of deliberation are discussed from the angle of political science and social psychology. Finally, the practical implications of deliberation rooted in social media are exemplified by an online citizen involvement for the public budgeting purposes of the city of Frankfurt/Main (Germany).']
[u"Internet, television and social capital: the effect of 'screen time' on social capital", u'Hooghe, M (Hooghe, Marc); Oser, J (Oser, Jennifer)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Social capital theory as it was developed in the 1990s assumed that face-to-face interaction is a crucial requirement for the development of generalized trust and other pro-social attitudes and behaviours. Television and other electronic media were therefore dismissed as having a potentially negative impact on social capital development. Based on an analysis of high-quality data and a rich variety of social capital indicators in the General Social Survey 2012, we assess the impact of two broad categories of screen time - internet and television - on both attitudinal and behavioural components of social capital. The results show that while watching television is either unrelated or negatively related to a range of social capital indicators, there is usually a positive relation between internet use (in various forms) and social capital indicators. This direct comparison of the impact of internet and television usage on social capital indicators in a nationally representative study challenges the expectation that television and other digital technologies would have a similar negative impact on social capital. The findings suggest that internet-based activities clearly play a positive role in the development of social capital despite the lack of in-person interaction, and the concluding discussion reviews avenues for future research to tease out causal mechanisms in the production of social capital in the digital age.']
[u'Expanding the Conversation: Multiplier Effects From a Deliberative Field Experiment', u'Lazer, DM (Lazer, David M.); Sokhey, AE (Sokhey, Anand E.); Neblo, MA (Neblo, Michael A.); Esterling, KM (Esterling, Kevin M.); Kennedy, R (Kennedy, Ryan)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Do formal deliberative events influence larger patterns of political discussion and public opinion? Critics argue that only a tiny number of people can participate in any given gathering and that deliberation may not remedyand may in fact exacerbateinequalities. We assess these criticisms with an experimental design merging a formal deliberative session with data on participants' social networks. We conducted a field experiment in which randomly selected constituents attended an online deliberative session with their U.S. Senator. We find that attending the deliberative session dramatically increased interpersonal political discussion on topics relating to the event. Importantly, after an extensive series of moderation checks, we find that no participant/nodal characteristics, or dyadic/network characteristics, conditioned these effects; this provides reassurance that observed, positive spillovers are not limited to certain portions of the citizenry. The results of our study suggest that even relatively small-scale deliberative encounters can have a broader effect in the mass public, and that these events are equal-opportunity multipliers."]
[u"Students blogging about politics: A study of students' political engagement and a teacher's pedagogy during a semester-long political blog assignment", u'Levy, BL (Levy, Brett L.); Journell, W (Journell, Wayne); He, Y (He, Yi); Towns, B (Towns, Brian)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Many scholars have written about the Internet's potential for engaging youth in public issues, but there has been little empirical research on the political engagement outcomes from students' classroom-based use of web 2.0 tools, such as blogs, or the pedagogies involved in designing such experiences. This paper begins to address this gap by analyzing the development of political engagement among several dozen high school students who were required to complete political blogs for their required U.S. government course and by exploring their teacher's pedagogical strategies and challenges. We analyzed data from 22 classroom observations, 15 student interviews, three teacher interviews, and surveys from over 300 students (including a large comparison group) given at the beginning and end of the fall 2012-13 semester. Quantitative and qualitative analyses indicate that students in the blog-focused classes developed greater political interest, internal political efficacy, and self-efficacy for political writing than other students. We also found that the teacher did not actively encourage interactive posting in order to avoid heated exchanges but that many students expressed an interest in seeing more responses to their online writing. We discuss implications for practice and research. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."]
[u'What Is Second Screening? Exploring Motivations of Second Screen Use and Its Effect on Online Political Participation', u'de Zuniga, HG (Gil de Zuniga, Homero); Garcia-Perdomo, V (Garcia-Perdomo, Victor); McGregor, SC (McGregor, Shannon C.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This study focuses on second screening for news, a hybrid media process that combines watching news on television and a second, web-connected screen (i.e., smart-phone, laptop). Based on U.S.-national, 2-wave panel data, the paper (a) examines people's motivations to engage in second screen use, and then (b) advances the relationship between second screening and online political behaviors. Discussing and pursuing further information are both central motivations for second screen use. Furthermore, results suggest second screening for news is a significant predictor of online political participation and a key link between TV news and political engagement as this relationship is fully mediated. The study advances theoretically and empirically ways in which an informed public opinion may partake of a more engaged democracy."]
[u'Social Media in the Dental School Environment, Part A: Benefits, Challenges, and Recommendations for Use', u'Spallek, H (Spallek, Heiko); Turner, SP (Turner, Sharon P.); Donate-Bartfield, E (Donate-Bartfield, Evelyn); Chambers, D (Chambers, David); McAndrew, M (McAndrew, Maureen); Zarkowski, P (Zarkowski, Pamela); Karimbux, N (Karimbux, Nadeem)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Social media consist of powerful tools that impact not only communication but relationships among people, thus posing an inherent challenge to the traditional standards of who we are as dental educators and what we can expect of each other. This article examines how the world of social media has changed dental education. Its goal is to outline the complex issues that social media use presents for academic dental institutions and to examine these issues from personal, professional, and legal perspectives. After providing an update on social media, the article considers the advantages and risks associated with the use of social media at the interpersonal, professional, and institutional levels. Policies and legal issues of which academic dental institutions need to be aware from a compliance perspective are examined, along with considerations and resources needed to develop effective social media policies. The challenge facing dental educators is how to capitalize on the benefits that social media offer, while minimizing risks and complying with the various forms of legal constraint.']
[u'Motivations for game play and the social capital and civic potential of video games', u'Dalisay, F (Dalisay, Francis); Kushin, MJ (Kushin, Matthew J.); Yamamoto, M (Yamamoto, Masahiro); Liu, YI (Liu, Yung-I); Skalski, P (Skalski, Paul)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study examined the relationships between video game play motivations identified by Yee (2006), social capital (measured by social trust and neighborliness), political participation, and civic engagement. Results of a survey of 465 college students in the United States showed that the Social motivation for video game play was positively associated with neighborliness. A factor consisting of Discovery/Role-playing/Customization, subcomponents of the Immersion motivation, was positively associated with civic engagement. Also, two marginally significant associations were found: a positive one between the Achievement motivation and civic engagement, and a negative one between Escapism, a subcomponent of the Immersion motivation, and trust. Implications were discussed.']
[u'Translating between social worlds of policy and everyday life: The development of a group-based method to support policymaking by exploring behavioural aspects of sustainable consumption', u'Horlick-Jones, T (Horlick-Jones, Tom); Prades, A (Prades, Ana)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"A large international literature on how lay citizens make sense of various aspects of science and technology has been generated by investigations which utilise small group methods. Within that literature, focus group and other group-based methods have come to co-exist, and to some extent, hybridise, with the use of small groups in citizen engagement initiatives. In this article, we report on how we drew upon these methodological developments in the design and operationalisation of a policymaking support tool (STAVE). This tool has been developed to gain insight, in a relatively speedy and cost-effective way, into practical details of the everyday lived experience of people's lives, as relating to the sustainability of corresponding practices. An important challenge we faced was how, in Kuhn's terms, to translate' between the forms of life corresponding to the world of policymaking and the world of everyday domestic life. We examine conceptual and methodological aspects of how the tool was designed and assembled, and then trialled in the context of active real-world collaborations with policymaking organisations. These trials were implemented in six European countries, where they were used to support work on live policy issues concerned with sustainable consumption."]
[u'Opening Government: Designing Open Innovation Processes to Collaborate With External Problem Solvers', u'Mergel, I (Mergel, Ines)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Open government initiatives in the U.S. government focus on three main aspects: transparency, participation, and collaboration. Especially the collaboration mandate is relatively unexplored in the literature. In practice, government organizations recognize the need to include external problem solvers into their internal innovation creation processes. This is partly derived from a sense of urgency to improve the efficiency and quality of government service delivery. Another formal driver is the America Competes Act that instructs agencies to search for opportunities to meaningfully promote excellence in technology, education, and science. Government agencies are responding to these requirements by using open innovation (OI) approaches to invite citizens to crowdsource and peer produce solutions to public management problems. These distributed innovation processes occur at all levels of the U.S. government and it is important to understand what design elements are used to create innovative public management ideas. This article systematically reviews existing government crowdsourcing and peer production initiatives and shows that after agencies have defined their public management problem, they go through four different phases of the OI process: (1) idea generation through crowdsourcing, (2) incubation of submitted ideas with peer voting and collaborative improvements of favorite solutions, (3) validation with a proof of concept of implementation possibilities, and (4) reveal of the selected solution and the (internal) implementation of the winning idea. Participation and engagement are incentivized both with monetary and nonmonetary rewards, which lead to tangible solutions as well as intangible innovation outcomes, such as increased public awareness.']
[u'Our Media, Our Principles Building codes of practice for community radio in India', u'Malik, KK (Malik, Kanchan K.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Community broadcasting is a nascent and unique sector now operating together with the commercial and national players in India and is identified by three significant characteristics-community participation, non-profit making, and community ownership and management. The overarching philosophy of community radio, acknowledged worldwide, is that it is a tool for social justice and a platform for community voices. Community radio seeks to counter the hegemony of the mainstream media and move away from the commerce-driven negative tendencies of media and journalism such as sensationalism, tabloidization, celebrity-worship, the unrestrained use of hidden cameras and paid news. Ordinary people, through participation in management, content production and organization, produce information relevant to them, choose their own stories, express their voice and define their identity. As India witnesses an endeavour to erect a nationwide network of thousands of autonomous, locally orientated community radio stations, it becomes necessary to build a set of codes of practice for this third tier of broadcasting so that it does not become a clone of mainstream media. This paper looks at some of these principles that the community radio sector in India must hold as sacred in order to strengthen civil society, journalism practices and democracy in India.']
[u'Inspiring and Informing Citizens Online: A Media Richness Analysis of Varied Civic Education Modalities', u'Brinker, DL (Brinker, David L.); Gastil, J (Gastil, John); Richards, RC (Richards, Robert C.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Public deliberation on the Internet is a promising but unproven practice. Online deliberation can engage large numbers of citizens at relatively low cost, but it is unclear whether such programs have substantial civic impact. One factor in determining their effectiveness may be the communicative features of the online setting in which they occur. Within a Media Richness Theory framework, we conducted a quasiexperiment to assess the civic outcomes of interventions executed online by non-profit organizations prior to the 2012 U.S. presidential election. The results assess the impact of these interventions on issue knowledge and civic attitudes. Comparisons of the interventions illustrate the importance of considering media richness online, and our discussion considers the theoretical and practical implications of these findings.']
[u'Scientific and Heritage Crowdsourcing at the Crossroads of Models of Coordination and Cooperation: The Case of Digital Herbaria', u'Zacklad, M (Zacklad, Manuel); Chupin, L (Chupin, Lisa)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'We studied the participation mechanisms developed by the institutions involved in the conservation of herbaria. Besides the facilitated consultation of digitized collections, some of the mechanisms offered the opportunity to participate in the transcription of the information contained in the images from the digitization of the herbaria or propose corrections to data already entered. We combined a typology of mediation schemes and of modes of collective action to apprehend the functional features of these websites. We highlighted the overlapping of functions belonging to different coordination and cooperation models among anonymous organizations and communities, which sometimes come into conflict.']
[u'Internet Alternative Media Use and Oppositional Knowledge', u'Lee, FLF (Lee, Francis L. F.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The Internet can be a platform through which citizens get informed about politics. Different types of Web sites, however, may convey different types of political knowledge. This study focuses on the impact of Internet alternative media on the audience's levels of oppositional knowledge, defined as knowledge about facts and concepts that are instrumental in the formation of critical attitudes toward dominant power and generating support for or participation in oppositional actions. Analysis of survey data from Hong Kong shows that Internet alternative media use relates positively to two of three types of oppositional knowledge examined, while it has limited relationship with traditional and nonoppositional forms of political knowledge. Oppositional knowledge also mediates the impact of Internet alternative media on support for a planned civil disobedience campaign and general protest participation."]
[u'Guarding the guardian: "Article 258 TFEU complaints\' before the European Ombudsman', u'Tsadiras, A (Tsadiras, Alexandros)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The infringement procedure of Article 258 TFEU has been consistently viewed by the EU administration and judges as a bipolar bargaining game between the European Commission and the defaulting member state, in which individuals have no role to play. The European Ombudsman's efforts to triangularize the infraction process have resulted in the introduction of a number of soft-law, non-justiciable commitments for the Commission, which are currently set out in the 2012 Communication on its relations with complainants. This article considers the Ombudsman's contribution in the field of infringement complaints by empirically examining the application of the principal provisions of the Commission's Communication in his decision-making. The resulting finding is that Article 258 TFEU complainants have substantially benefited from the Ombudsman's creativity beyond the tight constraints of legality. Points for practitioners The analysis brings to the fore a number of key soft-law, non-justiciable commitments that the European Union administration is expected to honour in its everyday dealings with the European citizenry. The discussion also explores the transformative impact that extra-judicial means for the delivery of administrative justice can have on the ethos and praxis of supranational management. The European Commission's reaction to the European Ombudsman's investigative pressure and the resultant restraints on the former's discretionary powers are useful lessons, which transcend the European Union context and could set the tone for relevant developments in the domestic spheres of the EU member states."]
[u'Youth Antecedents to News Media Consumption: Parent and Youth Newspaper Use, News Discussion, and Long-Term News Behavior', u'York, C (York, Chance); Scholl, RM (Scholl, Rosanne M.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Intergenerational panel data are used to test a model of youth news socialization. We hypothesize that observing parent news reading and participating in family news discussions have concurrent effects on youth news use, ultimately resulting in a propensity for news consumption that persists into adulthood. Results from a recursive path model demonstrate parent communication variables have direct and indirect effects on frequency of youth news use. Frequency of youth news use, in turn, predicts news use among the same respondents 7 years later. We also find a latent, lagged effect of parent news reading on their kids' long-term news use."]
[u'"Tools for Citizenship?" Public Service Media as a Site for Civic Engagement: An Australian Case Study', u'Debrett, M (Debrett, Mary)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Innovation is blooming among public service broadcasters across the world, with the term public service media (PSM) now in common parlance as services are extended across new media platforms and experiments undertaken into new interactive content forms. Driven by both an institutional instinct for survival and a traditional remit to innovate, the new phenomenon of PSM invariably entails risks for publicly funded media, provoking increased hostility from commercial rivals, new and old, and invoking new regulatory hurdles and benchmarks for proving public value. Exploring how one incidence of PSM innovation is endeavoring to address balance and accountability and to provide a broader scope for viewer participation and interaction in political public discourse, integrating multiple media platforms, this article discusses the potential implications of such ventures for the public service remit.']
[u'Public visualization displays of citizen data: Design, impact and implications', u'Valkanova, N (Valkanova, Nina); Jorda, S (Jorda, Sergi); Vande Moere, A (Vande Moere, Andrew)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'In this paper we propose citizen-driven, public data visualization as a tool to support social and civic purposes in public spaces. We argue for the potential of this approach, motivating it with recent trends and developments in the areas of information visualization, urban computing, and urban screens, and we layout a transdisciplinary research approach and methodology. Through three studies approaching our research goal from design, empirical, and reflective perspectives, we show how visualization interfaces, situated in public spaces can improve perception, and lead to sustained behavior change; can increase social awareness and discourse; and can influence meaningful participation and a range of social interactions related to locally relevant topics. We conclude by discussing implications for the design, use and evaluation of citizen-driven public visualization as a tool increase public awareness, participation and discourse. (C) 2015 Published by Elsevier Ltd.']
[u'Governance in the European Union: A Policy Analysis of the Attempts to Raise Legitimacy through Civil Society Participation', u'Heidbreder, EG (Heidbreder, Eva G.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The article focuses on two flagship initiatives - the open method of co-ordination and online consultations - in which the European Union aimed to improve democratic legitimacy through collaborative governance. Offering an analytical framework to scrutinize the large body of existing theoretical and empirical research, the article concludes that not only were the high expectations on the effects of applied governance disappointed, the results also hint at larger, more general implications for the governance concept that, in contrast to the high expectations, appears to be indeed strongly dependent on government-like conditions to operate successfully.']
[u'Upstream Public Engagement in Nanotechnology: Constraints and Opportunities', u'Krabbenborg, L (Krabbenborg, Lotte); Mulder, HAJ (Mulder, Henk A. J.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Upstream public engagement with new science and technology is considered important but challenging. This article shows how engagement events are embedded in broader institutional and cultural contexts. By studying two different cases of upstream engagement in nanotechnology, we demonstrate how existing institutional responsibilities and cultural repertoires contribute much to the productivity of actual engagement events. Insight into these wider world dynamics will help science communicators (or event organizers) foster reflection and deliberation among relevant actors about whether and how upstream public engagement can have an impact on the governance of new science and technology.']
[u'A service-oriented architecture to enable participatory planning: an e-planning platform', u'Poorazizi, ME (Poorazizi, M. Ebrahim); Steiniger, S (Steiniger, Stefan); Hunter, AJS (Hunter, Andrew J. S.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Recent advances in Web technologies have opened avenues to create socio-technical platforms that can empower citizens in urban planning processes. The rise of the GeoWeb and the popularity of Web 2.0 collaborative tools can facilitate the development of a new generation of bottom-up Public Participatory GIS (PPGIS) platforms that can incorporate user-generated content into Spatial Data Infrastructures (SDIs). New service-based delivery mechanisms can provide architectural flexibility and adaptability, and enable the public to benefit from ubiquitous information access. From an e-participation perspective, Web 2.0 social networking functions support interactive communication among various PPGIS stakeholders, e.g., citizens, planners, and decision makers. The main contribution of this article is to present a reference architecture for e-planning platforms that (1) facilitates effective e-participation by allowing multidirectional map-based communication among various land development stakeholders (e.g., planners, decision makers, citizens, etc.), and (2) enables incorporation of visualization, evaluation, and discussion capabilities to support community planning processes. To achieve this, we developed a service-oriented architecture (SOA) that exploits SDI principles and Web 2.0 technologies. The platform architecture allows heterogeneous data sources, analytical functionality and tools, and presentation frameworks to be plugged into a coherent system to provide a planning and decision support platform. We present two real-world implementations of the proposed architecture that have been developed to support community engagement in the City of Calgary, Canada.']
[u'Online participation in climate change adaptation: A case study of agricultural adaptation measures in Northern Italy', u'Bojovic, D (Bojovic, Dragana); Bonzanigo, L (Bonzanigo, Laura); Giupponi, C (Giupponi, Carlo); Maziotis, A (Maziotis, Alexandros)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The new EU strategy on adaptation to climate change suggests flexible and participatory approaches. Face-to-face contact, although it involves time-consuming procedures with a limited audience, has often been considered the most effective participatory approach. In recent years, however, there has been an increase in the visibility of different citizens' initiatives in the online world, which strengthens the possibility of greater citizen agency. This paper investigates whether the Internet can ensure efficient public participation with meaningful engagement in climate change adaptation. In elucidating issues regarding climate change adaptation, we developed an eParticipation framework to explore adaptation capacity of agriculture to climate change in Northern Italy. Farmers were mobilised using a pre-existing online network. First they took part in an online questionnaire for revealing their perceptions of and reactions to the impacts of ongoing changes in agriculture. We used these results to suggest a portfolio of policy measures and to set evaluation criteria. Farmers then evaluated these policy options, using a multi criteria analysis tool with a simple user-friendly interface. Our results showed that eParticipation is efficient; it supports a rapid data collection, while involving high number of participants. Moreover, we demonstrated that the digital divide is decreasingly an obstacle for using online spaces for public engagement. This research does not present eParticipation as a panacea. Rather, eParticipation was implemented with well-established participatory approaches to both validate the results and, consequently, communicate meaningful messages on local agricultural adaptation practices to regional decision-makers. Feedbacks from the regional decision-makers showed their interest in using eParticipation to improve communication with farmers in the future. We expect that, with further Internet proliferation, eParticipation may allow the inclusion of more representative samples, which would contribute to an informed and legitimate decision-making process. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."]
[u"Kenya Decides: Kiswahili, social media and politics in Kenya's 2013 general elections", u'Bing, N (Bing, Natascha)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"As Kenya's 2013 general elections hone witnessed, Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and new media have played a crucial role in shaping political landscapes. The debates on Twitter and Facebook, being important forums for Kenyans engaging in politics, display discussions in quite creative linguistic forms. In contrast to most recent studies focusing on how ICT and new media were catalysts for the 2007/08 post-election violence, this article will shed light on the role of Kiswahili and social media in the process of fostering participation in the 2073 general election campaigns. It takes a closer look at how the use of Kiswahili and mobile phones has shaped citizen engagement by offering new forms and spaces of expression. It will give insight into evolving digital practices of political communication during the 2013 general elections in Kenya."]
[u"Changes in late adolescents' voting intentions during the election campaign: Disentangling the effects of political communication with parents, peers and media", u'Serek, J (Serek, Jan); Umemura, T (Umemura, Tomo)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article investigates the effects of political discussions with parents, political discussions with peers and exposure to political news during an election campaign on the voting intentions and behaviour of first-time voters. Longitudinal data collected in the Czech Republic are employed in the main analysis (N=223). Results show that young people who frequently discuss politics with their peers are characterized by higher voting intentions and subsequent electoral participation. On the other hand, political discussions with parents and exposure to political news have no such effects. Furthermore, although it does not have an impact on voting intentions, more frequent political discussions with parents predict increased frequency of political discussions with peers. Overall, our results underscore the importance of peers in late adolescents' political socialization."]
[u'Social media in Saudi Arabia: Exploring its use during two natural disasters', u'Al-Saggaf, Y (Al-Saggaf, Yeslam); Simmons, P (Simmons, Peter)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The study explored social media activity during two peacetime natural disasters in Saudi Arabia, a country where citizen participation in public matters is minimized and communication with government is characterised by restraint. A qualitative thematic analysis using concepts from public sphere, online public sphere and previous studies of social media was used with 5000 threads taken from YouTube, Facebook, Al-Saha Al-Siyasia and Al Arabiya. Social media helped users to communicate the gravity of the damage of the floods; discuss rationally what really happened, and why and who was responsible; criticize the government and call for action to be taken to remedy the situation; and express deep emotions of sadness over the loss of lives in a way that united people. Rational discussion was evident on Facebook and Al-Saha Al-Siyasia, but social media was more useful for reading the emotional state of the people than as a vehicle for communicating the deliberative and rational aspirations of the public sphere. Social media is unlikely to produce social change on its own, but is likely to facilitate social and political trends for change already occurring in countries, and this may be accelerated during times of disaster when heightened emotions embolden people. Governments may regard social media as a vehicle for undesirable pressure, or positively as a window on the emotional state of their people that helps them to respond more appropriately. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.']
[u'Hearing the Other Side Revisited: The Joint Workings of Cross-Cutting Discussion and Strong Tie Homogeneity in Facilitating Deliberative and Participatory Democracy', u'Lee, H (Lee, Hoon); Kwak, N (Kwak, Nojin); Campbell, SW (Campbell, Scott W.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This study seeks to shed light on the highly publicized democracy dilemma signaling that encountering disagreement tends to promote deliberative democracy, while the same experience can dampen a citizen's motivation to participate. By assessing the processes wherein the joint workings of cross-cutting discussion and strong tie homogeneity are simultaneously associated with the outcomes of deliberative and participatory democracy, we provide a number of key insights into the puzzling quandary. First, our results indicate that cross-cutting discussion and strong tie homogeneity interact with each other to predict increased political participation. Second, the relationship between cross-cutting discussion and preference for open dialogue is stronger for those who belong to a congenial primary network. Third, efficacious individuals seem more capable of translating the benefits of an ongoing deliberative orientation into meaningful political behavior. The current research suggests that deliberation and participation can go hand in hand under a particular network context."]
[u'Social media and mobiles as political mobilization forces for young adults: Examining the moderating role of online political expression in political participation', u'Yamamoto, M (Yamamoto, Masahiro); Kushin, MJ (Kushin, Matthew J.); Dalisay, F (Dalisay, Francis)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'A web survey of college students was conducted to examine whether online political expression moderates the effects of political media use on political participation. Results showed that online political expression enhanced the effects of political mobile apps, traditional offline and online media, and social media on political participation. Implications are discussed for a mobilizing role of online media in the democratic process for young adults.']
[u"Listening to digital publics. Investigating citizens' voices and engagement within Italian municipalities' Facebook Pages", u'Lovari, A (Lovari, Alessandro); Parisi, L (Parisi, Lorenza)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Several studies underlined the impact of social media in the public sector, investigating the adoption process and uses of these digital platforms by public administrations. This paper adopts a public-oriented perspective to investigate citizens' voices and engagement within 10 Italian municipalities' Facebook Pages. In particular, it investigates the motivations to become Facebook fan of a municipality, and the variety of digital practices carried out by citizens to communicate and relate with this type of public administrations. The study was carried out through the administration of an online survey of 35 questions to 1196 Facebook users. The research proposes an active digital public typology (likers, mono interaction users, multi-interaction users, full interaction users) based on the extension of the activities that citizens carry out on municipalities' Facebook Pages. The thematic analysis of the digital publics' opinions reveals that citizens ask for a tangible and actual two-way communication with local administrations on social media. Theoretical and practical implications for public sector institutions using social media are discussed. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."]
[u'Opening Accounting to Critical Scrutiny: Towards Dialogic Accounting for Policy Analysis and Democracy', u'Brown, J (Brown, Judy); Dillard, J (Dillard, Jesse)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Engaging policy studies audiences in the critical scrutiny of accounting potentially enhances the possibilities for democratizing accounting. To facilitate realizing this potential, this article highlights traditional accounting's narrow focus on financial markets and shareholder wealth maximization, its failure to adequately account for the social and environmental impacts of organizational activity, and the role it has played in the spread of neoliberal logics. It outlines proposals for dialogic accounting theory and practice aimed at developing civil society-oriented accounts that foster critical reflection and debate on organizational practices. The discussion also highlights the significant challenges involved in developing dialogic accounting - in terms of both the taken-for-grantedness of business-oriented framings, and wider political economy context. The article underlines the importance of cross-disciplinary initiatives and civil society engagement in efforts to challenge the monologism of traditional accounting and develop democratically responsive accounting."]
[u"Community filmmaking as research: (re)considering knowledge production through the camera's lens", u'Orbach, A (Orbach, Ariella); Rain, J (Rain, Juan); Contreras, R (Contreras, Roberto)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'In southern Chile, Mapuche Indigenous communities are using video and digital filmmaking to collectively reflect on and communicate knowledge. This article shares their experience, arguing that with the increasing accessibility of information and communication technologies, we should be rethinking and broadening the acceptable ways to generate and convey knowledge about development. Acknowledging the diverse ways of knowing and communicating knowledge, this article suggests that video can be a powerful tool for self-representative knowledge-sharing by Indigenous communities. Only by expanding our debates beyond written media can we engage equitably with a plurality of knowledge-holders to resolve development challenges.']
[u'Understanding Local News Consumption and Community Participation via the Lens of Information Repertoires and Media Multiplexity', u'Lai, CH (Lai, Chih-Hui); Tang, T (Tang, Tang)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study applies and extends the frameworks of information repertoires and media multiplexity to examine how the use of local information repertoires affects multimodal community participation, which is in turn reflected in community integration. A path analysis was conducted on the data gathered by the Pew Internet and American Life Project. The results showed that four variableshabits of information seeking, diverse community interests, access to technology, and local information repertoireswere associated with each other. In addition, together they predicted community participation through multiple media use and the media gratifications obtained, which in turn positively influenced the level of local ties, community satisfaction, and community efficacy. Implications of the findings for theoretical and societal contributions and directions for future research are discussed.']
[u'The Evolution of Information and Communication Technology in Public Administration', u'Liu, SM (Liu, Shuhua Monica); Yuan, QL (Yuan, Qianli)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Over the last decades, governments all over the world have tried to take advantage of information and communication technology (ICT) to improve government operations and communication with citizens. Adoption of e-government has increased in most countries, but at the same time, the rate of successful adoption and operation varies from country to country. This article outlines the evolution of ICT in the public sector over the past 25years. It presents general trends by examining interactions and mutual shaping processes between ICT evolution and several inter-related institutional changes including government operations, public services delivery, citizen participation, policy and decision making, and governance reform. The authors suggest that within a short time period, e-governance has evolved rapidly from rudimentary uses of ICTs as simple tools to support highly structured administrative work to the integration of ICT throughout government operations. The growing use of Web 2.0, social media, and mobile and wireless ICT by citizens can also heavily impact the way public services are delivered and how citizen engagement processes are carried out. However, new management approaches, governance structures, and policy frameworks are still missing, posing a challenge for governments to operate effectively in the age of big data. Generally, developing countries are lagging behind in e-government adoption compared with developed countries. Thus, for developing countries to successfully adopt ICT and try to leapfrog some of the obstacles encountered by early ICT adopters in developed countries, systematic analyses need to be conducted to understand the interactions among stakeholders and ICTs and co-create the institutional environment to lead to a positive impact of ICT on public administration. Only when this relationship is clearly understood can innovative ICTs be seamlessly integrated into the governance structure. Copyright (c) 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.']
[u"Participatory journalism - the (r)evolution that wasn't. Content and user behavior in Sweden 2007-2013", u'Karlsson, M (Karlsson, Michael); Bergstrom, A (Bergstrom, Annika); Clerwall, C (Clerwall, Christer); Fast, K (Fast, Karin)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'A contemporary debate in media studies concerns participation and empowerment, and to what extent digital media shift power to the citizens. This study assesses the long-term viability of participatory journalism using Swedish content and user data. Inclusion of comments and blog-links on news sites increased from 2007 to 2010, and decreased rather dramatically from 2011 onward. Posting user comments or writing blogs have never been activities that have appealed to a majority of the Swedes. Participatory journalism seems to have decreasing value to producers and little appeal to users. A shift in how power is distributed in the public sphere is absent. This is not primarily a problem of reluctant producers but, more importantly, a lack of interest from users.']
[u'Editorial power and public participation in online newspapers', u'Ihlebaek, KA (Ihlebaek, Karoline Andrea); Krumsvik, AH (Krumsvik, Arne H.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The Internet has radically increased the opportunity for the public to take part in debate and deliberation, challenging the hegemonic position of the established media as the facilitators of such debate. As new forums for participation have entered the market, traditional players in television, radio and the press have also transformed their services, strategically aiming to facilitate new forms of participatory services where citizens can engage in discussions. In this article we explore how the participatory trend raises important questions concerning how editorial standards and editorial control are maintained in online newspapers. Based on a mapping of the available services, surveys of newspaper executives, and in-depth interviews with online editors, we investigate attitudes and practices with regard to editorial control and its attempt to balance the new ideals of participation in the online world with maintaining the editorial standards of print media.']
[u'Social network websites as information channels for the US Social Forum', u'Gervais, EA (Gervais, Elizabeth Anne)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'In this article, I examine the use of social network website (SNS) as an influential factor for offline protest activities and organizational memberships. The properties of SNSs may help encourage interpersonal interaction, broaden social ties, and provide valuable information about how to become civically and politically involved. I test these hypotheses using data from a survey of attendees fielded at the US Social Forum (USSF) and control for individual factors as well as alternative mobilizing channels. The empirical evidence suggests that attendees who learned of the meeting through SNSs were more likely to engage in offline protest activity and have a broader array of organizational memberships than were those who learned of the USSF through alternative information channels. I conclude by discussing the implications of these findings for social movement mobilization and persistence.']
[u'Tracing Process to Performance of Collaborative Governance: A Comparative Case Study of Federal Hydropower Licensing', u'Ulibarri, N (Ulibarri, Nicola)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Despite collaborative governance's popularity, whether collaboration improves policy performance remains uncertain. This study assesses the link between collaborative decision making and licensed environmental management protocols in the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's (FERC's) process for licensing hydropower facilities in the United States. Using results from a previous study of FERC relicensing (Ulibarri, forthcoming), one high-, one medium-, and one low-collaboration case were selected. Using documents including meeting minutes, public comments, and issued licenses, I assessed collaboration and license outputs, then conducted process tracing to examine whether and how differences in collaboration produced differences in license quality. High collaboration resulted in jointly developed and highly implementable operating regimes designed to improve numerous resources, while low collaboration resulted in operating requirements that ignored environmental concerns raised by stakeholders and lacked implementation provisions. These results support the hypothesis that collaboration can improve environmental outcomes, revealing the pragmatic value of collaboration. [Correction added on 13 January 2015, after first online publication: the occurrences of 0' in the abstract were erroneous and have now been corrected.]"]
[u'Loyal to your city? A data mining analysis of a public service loyalty program', u'De Cnudde, S (De Cnudde, Sofie); Martens, D (Martens, David)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Customer loyalty programs are largely present in the private sector and have been elaborately studied. Applications from the private sector have found resonance in a public setting, however, simply extrapolating research results is not acceptable, as their rationale inherently differs. This study focuses on data from a loyalty program issued by the city of Antwerp (Belgium). The aim of the loyalty card entails large citizen participation, however, an active user base of only 20 % is reached. Predictive techniques are employed to increase this number. Using spatial behavioral user information, a Naive Bayes classifier and a Support Vector Machine are used which result in models capable of predicting whether a user will actively use its card, whether a user will defect in the near future and which locations a user will visit. Also, a projection of spatial behavioral data onto even more fine-grained spatio-temporal data is performed. The results are promising: the best model achieves an AUC value of 92.5%, 85.5% and 88.12% (averaged over five locations) for the predictions, respectively. Moreover, as behavior is modeled in more detail, better predictions are made. Two main contributions are made in this study. First, as a theoretical contribution, fine-grained behavioral data contributes to a more sound decision-making process. Second, as a practical contribution, the city of Antwerp can now make tailored strategic decisions to increase its active user base. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.']
[u"Making the Technological Transition - Citizens' Encounters with Digital Pension Services", u'Breit, E (Breit, Eric); Salomon, R (Salomon, Robert)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"We examine in this article the impact of digitization on the provision of public services by studying how citizens experience the use of web portals in their pension planning. Based on focus groups and user test material, we elucidate five critical phases that each operate as an obstacle for citizens' further engagement in the digital self-service process: interest, access, comprehension, reflection and support. We argue that these phases and the obstacles they entail illustrate a transition away from a situation in which control and agency over the quality of public services is embedded in a dyadic relationship between citizens and frontline personnel, and to a situation characterized by more complex relations between citizens, the front line, and the digital infrastructure. We argue that this transition implies that citizens are required to possess a new type of competence that contains both financial and digital skills. Citizens who are unable to develop or acquire such competence are likely to be disadvantaged by the services. Lastly, we argue that these developments pose significant challenges for public administrations to ensure the overall quality of the public services."]
[u'Identifying the value co-creation behavior of virtual customer environments using a hybrid expert-based DANP model in the bicycle industry', u'Chuang, HM (Chuang, Huan-Ming); Chen, YS (Chen, You-Shyang)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Since 2008, soaring international oil prices and environmental awareness have pushed bicycle to be a green transport vehicle to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as a significant global trend. Consequently, Taiwan\'s bicycle industry earned the "bicycle kingdom" has entered a new peak period of demand under popular social trends of bicycling for health conscious and a healthy exercise tool; thus, to co-create value with customers to retain the reputation is important for Taiwan\'s bicycle industry. In Internet age, plus the prevailing of service-dominant logic, virtual customer environments (VCEs) can be greatly leveraged to promote customers\' active engagement in the value co-creation activities. After an extensive literature review, this study organizes a hybrid expert-based DANP model based on the applications of multi-criteria decision making (MCDM) tools, such as decision-making trial and evaluation laboratory (DEMATEL)-based analytical network process (ANP), for investigating the iterative and dynamic nature of customer\'s engagement and value co-creation behavior in the key bicycle industry in Taiwan. In the empirical study of analysis, the use and gratification framework of prior studies is validated on concerning the dynamic value co-creation behavior in bicycling VCEs and yields the following empirical results: (1) Tribal behavior drives the pursuit of realized benefits through VCE engagement and affects the related participation and citizenship behaviors in turn; (2) recognize the importance of social influences toward personal commitment and engagement of bicycling activities and related VCEs; and (3) four broad types of interaction-based benefits derived from engagement in VCEs include cognitive, social integrative, personal integrative, and hedonic benefits. The major research findings on theoretical implications and managerial implications provide helpful insights on marketing of Taiwan\'s bicycle industry.']
[u'News Consumers, Opinion Leaders, and Citizen Consumers: Moderators of the Consumption-Participation Link', u'Cho, J (Cho, Jaeho); Keum, H (Keum, Heejo); Shah, DV (Shah, Dhavan V.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The intersection of consumer culture and civic life has long been a topic of academic discussion. This study revisits the relationship between consumption and civic engagement and investigates the moderators of this relationship. Specifically, we focus on news consumption and opinion leadership as intervening factors that condition the way consumption and civic life are interconnected. Our data reveal that both socially conscious consumption and status-oriented consumption are positively related with civic participation. The positive relationships become stronger when news consumption increases or when one's opinion leadership is strong. Implications for research on consumer culture and civic engagement are discussed."]
[u'Political Expression and Action on Social Media: Exploring the Relationship Between Lowerand Higher-Threshold Political Activities Among Twitter Users in Italy', u'Vaccari, C (Vaccari, Cristian); Valeriani, A (Valeriani, Augusto); Barbera, P (Barbera, Pablo); Bonneau, R (Bonneau, Rich); Jost, JT (Jost, John T.); Nagler, J (Nagler, Jonathan); Tucker, JA (Tucker, Joshua A.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Scholars and commentators have debated whether lower-threshold forms of political engagement on social media should be treated as being conducive to higher-threshold modes of political participation or a diversion from them. Drawing on an original survey of a representative sample of Italians who discussed the 2013 election on Twitter, we demonstrate that the more respondents acquire political information via social media and express themselves politically on these platforms, the more they are likely to contact politicians via e-mail, campaign for parties and candidates using social media, and attend offline events to which they were invited online. These results suggest that lower-threshold forms of political engagement on social media do not distract from higher-threshold activities, but are strongly associated with them.']
[u'Framing the Questions of E-Government Ethics: An Organizational Perspective', u'Roman, AV (Roman, Alexandru V.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Scholars have suggested that the delineation of a field's big questions is critical for its cohesive and practical intellectual growth. Instilling a habitual practice of focusing inquiries on fundamental questions is particularly warranted for fledgling areas of research. Currently, while there is already a rich body of literature that addresses administrative, computer, information, and cyber ethics, only a limited number of writings discuss ethical problems specifically within the e-government context. It can be argued that the e-government condition introduces a distinctive type of ethical problems; questions regarding which have yet to be properly framed. This article suggests five critical questions of e-government ethics at the organizational level that justify notable academic attention."]
[u"Identification and analysis of smallholder producers' constraints: applications to Tanzania and Uganda", u'Baker, D (Baker, Derek); Cadilhon, J (Cadilhon, Jo); Ochola, W (Ochola, Washington)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article puts forward a method for the analysis of constraints faced by developing countries' smallholder producers. It is consistent with theories of constraints, efficient in terms of cost and researchers' time, and accessible to a non-technical audience. A hybrid of workshop discussion and individual data collection, it also draws on data and analyses available in most developing countries. The article presents an application to smallholder livestock systems in Tanzania and Uganda, reporting results and analysis relating constraints to households' characteristics and conditions, and their stated goals. While limitations are identified, it is proposed for application in other development fields."]
[u'Strategic planning through a participatory learning and action framework: a Kenyan study', u'Labbe, J (Labbe, Jolene); Dewey, CE (Dewey, Catherine E.); Weber, LJ (Weber, Laura Jane); McIntyre, J (McIntyre, Jennifer); Hoekstra, K (Hoekstra, Kiera); Klapwyk, C (Klapwyk, Cameron)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This paper reflects on the use of a participatory learning and action (PLA) framework in a strategic planning process (SPP) at a primary school in rural Kenya. Successes and challenges are discussed, focusing on the barriers to fully implementing the PLA framework. Additionally, lessons learnt and ways forward for participatory SPPs are outlined. The PLA framework allowed the project stakeholders to engage in a planning process that gave participants a voice in the process. Although PLA methodology faces shortcomings, the application of this model is a step towards making community development more sustainable.']
[u'DISABILITY MEDIA PARTICIPATION: OPPORTUNITIES, OBSTACLES AND POLITICS', u'Ellis, K (Ellis, Katie); Goggin, G (Goggin, Gerard)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article discusses participatory media from a critical disability perspective. It discusses the relative absence of explicit discussion and research on disability in the literatures on community, citizen and alternative media. By contrast, disability has emerged as an important element of participatory cultures and digital technologies. To explore disability participatory cultures, the article offers analysis of case studies, including disability blogs, ABC's Ramp Up website and crowd-funding platforms (such as Kickstarter)."]
[u'Civic crowdfunding research: Challenges, opportunities, and future agenda', u'Stiver, A (Stiver, Alexandra); Barroca, L (Barroca, Leonor); Minocha, S (Minocha, Shailey); Richards, M (Richards, Mike); Roberts, D (Roberts, Dave)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Civic crowdfunding is a sub-type of crowdfunding through which citizens, in collaboration with government, fund projects providing a community service. Although in the early stages of development, civic crowdfunding is a promising area for both research and application due to its potential impact on citizen engagement, as well as its influence on the success of a wide range of civic projects ranging from physical structures to amenities and local services. However, the field remains under-addressed in academic research and underdeveloped in terms of the number of civic projects posted to crowdfunding platforms. Acknowledging these issues, we outline the history of civic crowdfunding and describe the current landscape, focusing on online crowdfunding platforms established specifically for the funding of civic projects (Citizinvestor, ioby, Neighbor. ly, Spacehive). The challenges and the opportunities of civic crowdfunding are examined, and its distinguishing characteristics are outlined, including a consideration of the impact of social media and platform features. We then propose a research agenda to help shape the future of this emergent field.']
[u'Degrees of Engagement: Using Cultural Worldviews to Explain Variations in Public Preferences for Engagement in the Policy Process', u'Trousset, S (Trousset, Sarah); Gupta, K (Gupta, Kuhika); Jenkins-Smith, H (Jenkins-Smith, Hank); Silva, CL (Silva, Carol L.); Herron, K (Herron, Kerry)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Scholars have been studying the concept of public engagement and its role in the policy process for some time. Scholars have argued that understanding the interests and motivations of the public and engaging them in the decision-making process can lead to better policy designs and, ultimately, better policy outcomes. However, studies of public engagement often assume that people have a desire to get involved in the policy process. This paper tests this key assumption using the case of nuclear facility siting in the United States to ask: what factors influence an individual's stated willingness to want to engage in the policy process? Using data from a national web survey fielded in 2013, we ask the public if and to what extent they would likely engage in the siting process if given the opportunity. Findings indicate that the likelihood of engagement varies rather substantially across individuals. We find that an individual's cultural belief system and existing level of political activity account for some of this variation. These findings suggest that public engagement programs may vary across groups and communities. In other words, the prospects of engagement are likely to appeal to some members of the population and not others."]
[u'Understanding civic engagement behaviour on Facebook from a social capital theory perspective', u'Warren, AM (Warren, Anne Marie); Sulaiman, A (Sulaiman, Ainin); Jaafar, NI (Jaafar, Noor Ismawati)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This paper applies the social capital theory to construct a model for investigating the factors that influence online civic engagement behaviour on Facebook. While there is promising evidence that people are making concerted efforts to adopt Facebook to address social issues, research on their civic behaviour from a social capital viewpoint in the social media context remains limited. This study introduces new insights into how Facebook is shaping the landscape of civic engagement by examining three dimensions of social capital - social interaction ties (structural), trust (relational), and shared languages and vision (cognitive). The study contends that these dimensions will influence individuals' online civic engagement behaviour on Facebook. We also argue that social interaction ties can engender trust, and shared languages and vision among its members, and that shared languages and vision can increase trust among Facebook members. Empirical data collected from 1233 Facebook users provide support for the proposed model. The results help in identifying the motivation underlying the online civic engagement behaviour of individuals in a public virtual community. The implications for theory and practice and future research directions are discussed."]
[u'Applying the Theory of Planned Behavior and Media Dependency Theory: Predictors of Public Pro-environmental Behavioral Intentions in Singapore', u'Ho, SS (Ho, Shirley S.); Liao, YQ (Liao, Youqing); Rosenthal, S (Rosenthal, Sonny)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Applying the theory of planned behavior and media dependency theory, this study examines the effects of attitude, subjective norms, perceived behavioral control (PBC), media dependency, traditional media attention, Internet attention, and interpersonal communication on two types of pro-environmental behaviors (PEBs)-green-buying and environmental civic engagement. Regression analysis of a nationally representative survey of adult Singaporeans (N = 1168) indicated that attitude, PBC, media dependency, traditional media attention, and interpersonal communication were positively associated with green-buying. Notably, traditional media attention, as well as interpersonal communication, moderated the influence of media dependency on green-buying behavior. In addition, attitude, descriptive norms, media dependency, Internet attention, and interpersonal communication positively predicted environmental civic engagement. Findings suggest the importance of communication factors in the adoption of the two PEBs.']
[u'Conceptualizing audience experience at the literary festival', u'Weber, M (Weber, Millicent)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The literary festival has been variously claimed to perform communicative, educative and social functions: it engages the public in literary and political discussions, thereby encouraging participation in 'the Arts' and promoting associated civic benefits. The audience of the literary festival, however, is typically represented as a body of populist and popularizing consumers, uncritically engaging with the mass-culture produced and propagated in the festival setting. Researchers have begun to refute such claims, demonstrating that members of festival audiences exhibit a deep and critical engagement with literature; but beyond this demographic-based research, little work has been conducted capable of interrogating audience experience, or mapping the broader culture of festival attendance. The diversity of literary festivals' sizes, locations, histories and stated goals is complemented by the equally broad ranges of programmed events. These events - and the festivals more broadly - are at once literary, theatrical, political and contemporary. As such, conceptions of audience, reader and readership from book history, communication and media studies, and performance and theatre studies, can all contribute to an investigation of the experience of the literary festival audience. This research compares work from these areas of study with individuals' personal accounts of festival experiences extracted from online weblogs to begin to conceptualise the variety and complexity of audience experiences at the literary festival, and outline the rich potential for further study in this area."]
[u'News Now Interface, ambience, flow, and the disruptive spatio-temporalities of mobile news media', u'Sheller, M (Sheller, Mimi)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article explores how mobile consumption practices afforded by new mobile media have transformed the spatialities and temporalities of news media through processes such as proliferation, participation, personalization, cross-platform flow, geolocation, and mapping. Expanding journalism studies to encompass digital social media and the interdisciplinary field of mobilities research, the approach taken here gives greater attention to the making and unmaking of materialities and infrastructure in order to show how the mobile production, dissemination, and consumption of news produces new spatial temporalities and scales. With the emergence of various mobile interfaces and personalized networks connected via mobile social media, news is not only constantly accessed "on demand" from miniature mobiles, but also tagged, curated, aggregated, and easily re-distributed, fostering "ambient journalism" (Hermida) and on-location "citizen witnessing" (Allan). Through a historical analysis of changes in the New York Times since the 1990s and a consideration of emerging modes of on-demand, on-location, participatory news production, it is argued that the redistribution of the places, spaces, and timing of news production and consumption has transformed not only the content, form, and style of news, but also the very temporality of news as an event. Through an analysis of the impact of these changes on the reporting of recent natural disasters, the article seeks to envision an enlivened terrain of mobile news that is live, active, immersive, pervasive, and constantly updating, yet also attentive to the implications of infrastructural disruption, data-mining, and surveillance.']
[u'Citizens of Nowhere Land Youth and news consumption in Europe', u'Banaji, S (Banaji, Shakuntala); Cammaerts, B (Cammaerts, Bart)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Injunctions for young people to participate in democratic life become more emphatic as voting rates in Western democracies decline and a growing disenchantment with traditional political life becomes apparent. In this context, city spaces and private property have been central to representations of the public sphere in which young people enact their participation. Crucially, young people have frequently been framed within televised spaces either as belligerent intruders or as a feral underclass. Theoretically, given the emphasis on information seeking, trust and news consumption as one of the cornerstones of civic life, the links between citizens' political, social and spatial positioning in relation to news products is of crucial importance. Via an analysis of experiences of news by diverse young citizens, the article decentres the technologies of watching or reading news and repositions the relationships between political news seeking, trust in journalism, meaning-making and socio-economic status within a framework of local experiences of politics and civic life. Crucially, it sheds light on the question of how groups of excluded youth conceptualise their own status in relation to the state, the nation and news media, and their critical comments about representation."]
[u"The Contradictory Effects in Efficiency and Citizens' Participation when Employing Geo-ICT Apps within Local Government", u'Kurniawan, M (Kurniawan, Muhammad); de Vries, WT (de Vries, Walter T.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"With the increasing use of web-based mapping applications, inter-mediation between public planning agencies and citizens is changing. This article investigates how one form of inter-mediation, geo-ICT-enabled apps (applications on mobile phones and/or internet that use maps or locations as basic references for any functional analysis), influences the degree of efficiency and participation in managing public space. The theoretical assumption here is that such apps encourage information disclosure and therefore have the potential to make a local government more responsive and transparent. Drawing on observation, interviews, and document and web content analysis conducted as part of a case study, this article suggests that the apps have indeed enhanced one municipality's response and have made citizens more active in uploading their complaints. However, unexpected and contradictory effects include an increase in trivial complaints, which has made the handling of reports less efficient, and the emergence of opportunistic behaviour by third parties on the basis of the complaints, which has made the services less effective. Consequently, the assumed causal relation between enhanced citizen participation and increased transparency and information disclosure requires an adaptation that incorporates such wicked effects."]
[u'Urban observatories in Latin America: Observe or participate?', u'Valenzuela-Montes, LM (Miguel Valenzuela-Montes, Luis); Silva, JCC (Carvalho-Cortes Silva, Juliana)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The goal of this paper is to advance in the understanding of the role of observatories, specifically in the Latin American metropolitan context, in terms of their ability to promote citizen participation using Geographic Information Technologies (GITs). The used methodology allowed us to identify different typologies regarding citizen access and use of the information about urban events, policies, plans and projects. The performed assessment makes it evident the fact that, in general, the role of these observatories is not exactly proactive or interactive, but one with limited ability to promote participation, spatial transparency and collective decision making.']
[u'THEORISING THE AFRICAN DIGITAL PUBLIC SPHERE: A WEST AFRICAN ODYSSEY', u'Akinbobola, Y (Akinbobola, Yemisi)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This theoretical discussion about the impact of information and communication technologies on journalistic practices and the digital public spheres in West Africa, asks two key questions: 1) To what extent does the ICT-enabled impact on journalism practice contribute to the rejuvenation of the public sphere in African societies, and 2) What are the methodological changes of investigating these contributions? Scholars have argued that advances in ICTs can be used to initiate alternative forms of news production and citizen engagement that would either augment the efforts of the mainstream news media in African countries or, if need be, bypass the challenges they face. This argument sits well within current debates about the use and impact of ICTs on news consumption, journalistic practices, and the expansion of the public sphere. As many African countries still aspire towards functioning and modern democratic structures, there is a clear need for further academic discussion on, and empirical research into, this technology-led transformation of journalism. The connection of these challenges with the emancipation of the public sphere is evident, and thus we arrive at the questions this article addresses by drawing on published literature of both theoretical and empirical contexts, as well as the author's observations and research."]
[u"SOCIAL MEDIA AS A HETEROGLOSSIC DISCURSIVE SPACE AND KENYA'S EMERGENT ALTERNATIVE/CITIZEN EXPERIMENT", u'Ogola, G (Ogola, George)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Over the past decade, Kenya's media landscape has witnessed a wave of transformative and disruptive technologies in the form of Web 2.0 applications, accessible through computers and now increasingly through mobile phones. These developments have since incubated two new critical media regimes. First, the country has seen the emergence of a new community of communication practitioners. Second, a new web-enabled communication infrastructure has made possible the broadening of the public sphere, encouraging public participation in news, with non-traditional journalistic platforms becoming important sites for 'alternative' journalism. This article critically reflects on how social media platforms such as Twitter (read here as a heteroglossic text and space) enable and encourage public participation in wider national conversations. The article explores this through the work of key bloggers/activists and citizen journalists, reflecting on how they construct as well as enable new participatory forms of civic/political engagement through Twitter. While the platform seems to have created its own hierarchies, horizontal participation is still much greater than with mainstream media formats. The discussion demonstrates the growing institutionalisation of the online space as an important platform for popular expression in Kenya, if at the same time offering an indictment of mainstream media's regime of 'closure' to outsider voices."]
[u"WHEN THE SUBALTERN SPEAKS: CITIZEN JOURNALISM AND GENOCIDE 'VICTIMS'' VOICES ONLINE", u'Mpofu, S (Mpofu, Shepherd)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Using qualitative data drawn from newzimbabwe.com and a listserv comprising mostly Ndebele-speaking people of Zimbabwe, this article investigates how the Web 2.0 era has given subaltern voices platforms to discuss issues rendered taboo in authoritarian contexts. The study is anchored on the concept of the subaltern public sphere and the metaphor of the 'voice' in cyberspace. The subaltern, as used here, refers to those people who perceive themselves as excluded from mainstream power and economic activities. The study uses online observation and critical discourse analysis (CDA) to examine how 'Ndebeles' discuss the 1980s genocide and how citizen journalism has generally revolutionised their participation in debates silenced by the ruling elite. What strongly comes out from the discussants' interactions is that the genocide, which has not been addressed since it 'ended' with the signing of the Unity Accord in 1987, remains contentious as victims have not found closure. The study concludes that Web 2.0 has reconfigured subaltern communities' engagements with the traumatic genocide."]
[u'MASS COMMUNICATION IS MORE THAN A ONE-WAY STREET: ON THE PERSISTENT FUNCTION AND RELEVANCE OF JOURNALISM', u'Furst, S (Fuerst, Silke); Schonhagen, P (Schoenhagen, Philomen); Bosshart, S (Bosshart, Stefan)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'In contrast to traditional mass communication, online communication is conceived as interactive and more participatory. Due to new technological possibilities and cultural changes, the audience is said to now play a crucial role in public discourse. Many scholars argue that journalists have lost their gatekeeping role and should strengthen user participation by giving voice to individual citizens. Yet research has shown that user participation accounts for only a small part of everyday media practices. Moreover, the visibility of ordinary citizens in media coverage is still low. This paper offers an explanation for these findings and sets out to rethink the structure and processes of mass communication as well as the ways in which users are participating in public discourse. Drawing on a discursive approach developed in early communication research, we highlight the genuine interactive nature of mass communication. Interactivity in this sense is not realised by the expression of every single individual, but by the exchange of statements between the representatives of diverse groups in society. Representation is crucial for journalism to fulfil its core function of providing a concentrated but comprehensive overview of the ongoing social discourse. The article concludes by discussing research needs and future challenges of journalism.']
[u'Can Partisan News Be Valuable for Discussion? An Analysis of the Effects of Internal Balance on Online Discussion Intention', u'Abril, EP (Abril, Eulalia P.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'What can be the effect of the simultaneous increase in online news seeking and exposure and the tendency for online news to be partisan? This study examines the effects of online partisan news on intention to engage in two online discussion dimensions: withdrawal and civil discussion. The novel notion of internal balance is advanced to determine the degree of balance or lack thereof (partisanship) within news stories. The effects are tested in two traditionally different media systems, the United States and Spain, using a controlled experiment. Results demonstrate that partisan news leads to less withdrawal and more civil discussion intention compared to balanced news. Moreover, results are consistent in both countries, thereby suggesting a democratic value for partisan news.']
[u'To Implement or Not to Implement? Participatory Online Communication in Swiss Cities', u'Klinger, U (Klinger, Ulrike); Rosli, S (Roesli, Stephan); Jarren, O (Jarren, Otfried)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Social media platforms and other digital interactive media hold great potential for political communication. This study explores perceptions about this potential and the motivations to adopt participatory tools and assesses both motivations and challenges that local administrations face in the process of technology adoption for political communication. Switzerland is a critical case for local communication, because, on the one hand, media structures, media usage patterns, political culture, and legal regulations make it likely to find high levels of participatory online communication. On the other hand, the formalized participation opportunities of direct democracy may undermine the potential of online participation. Our analysis, based on interviews and document analysis, addresses the implementation of participatory online communication from the theoretical perspectives of rational choice and neoinstitutionalism. We found diffuse rather than specific motivations, role conflicts, frictions between informal online participation and formal decision-making processes, and low demand and resonance from citizens to be important challenges to the implementation of online participation.']
[u'From Wizards and House-Elves to Real-World Issues: Political Talk in Fan Spaces', u'Kligler-Vilenchik, N (Kligler-Vilenchik, Neta)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Political talk enables citizens to form opinions and understand the significance of the political world. Yet young people in particular may find political talk intimidating or divisive, and may require alternative spaces to discuss politics. This article presents an ethnographic examination of political talk within the context of a face-to-face Harry Potter fan discussion group, as a case of a "third space" where shared popular culture interests serve as a starting point for political discussion. The analysis suggests three mechanisms explicating the process through which popular culture contexts can engender political talk: scaling up, broadening the political, and mobilization. Connections between popular culture and political communication are found to be particularly important for the political socialization of young people.']
[u'Discussion Network Heterogeneity Matters: Examining a Moderated Mediation Model of Social Media Use and Civic Engagement', u'Kim, Y (Kim, Yonghwan); Chen, HT (Chen, Hsuan-Ting)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Employing original two-wave national panel survey data, this study examines the mediating role of discussion network heterogeneity on social media in the relationship between social media use for news/information and civic engagement. This study also investigates whether such indirect effects of social media use on civic participation are contingent on individuals' extraversion personality. The results indicate that discussion network heterogeneity mediates the relationship between citizens' social media use for news/information and their civic engagement. In other words, social media use for information positively influences individuals' discussion network heterogeneity on social network sites, which consequently contributes to increased levels of civic engagement. In addition, this indirect effect of social media use on civic participation through network heterogeneity is stronger for introverted individuals. The implications of these findings are discussed."]
[u'Unfinished Science in Museums: a push for critical science literacy', u'Hine, A (Hine, Amelia); Medvecky, F (Medvecky, Fabien)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Communication of scientific knowledge has been caught up in a pedagogical struggle between science literacy ideologies. The backseat role taken by the teaching of the philosophical and sociological aspects of science has come under fire by those calling for a broader view of science to be made public under the umbrella term "critical science literacy". In this paper, we argue that the lack of unfinished science in museums - science still in the making or still being debated - is a paradigm case where the richer, fuller view of science is being denied air by the presentation of science as a finished, objective set of facts. We argue that unfinished science offers us the opportunity to present the full complexity of science, including its social and philosophical aspects, and thus enabling the "critical" of critical science literacy.']
[u'PARTICIPATION OR NEW MEDIA USE FIRST ? RECONSIDERING THE ROLE OF NEW MEDIA IN CIVIC PRACTICES IN THE CZECH REPUBLIC', u'Macek, J (Macek, Jakub); Mackova, A (Mackova, Alena); Kotisova, J (Kotisova, Johana)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The article discusses qualitative research on the mundane civic practices of some Czechs, with a specific focus on the role of new media. It works with a context-oriented approach in order to avoid media-centrism. Our research is focussed on the ways in which civic practices are structured by immediate and wider social and political contexts and how they are experienced by post-socialist citizens from villages and large cities. The role of new media and the place of civic practices in everyday life is analysed with respect to these contexts. The research based on semi-structured in-depth interviews with 22 politically and publicly active citizens indicates that Czechs experience a similar crisis in relation to institutional politics as their counterparts in long established democracies and it reveals tell-tale differences between the social spaces of villages and cities both in participatory practices and in civic uses of new media. However, the study does not indicate a radical, new media-driven transformation of citizenship, rather it suggests subtle shifts in practices and a pragmatic mixing of face-to-face communication and traditional media (print, public address systems, noticeboards) with new communication technologies.']
[u'MEDIA AND DEMOCRATISATION: CHALLENGES FOR AN EMERGING SUB-FIELD', u'Jebril, N (Jebril, Nael); Loveless, M (Loveless, Matthew); Stetka, V (Stetka, Vaclav)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article seeks to compile an empirically-based understanding of the role of media in countries in transition. The study focuses on the processes of political socialization, behaviour and accountability, and gives examples from three regions: Central and Eastern Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East/North Africa region. We draw on some of the major works relevant to the study of mass media in these transitional contexts with the aim of discerning emergent theories available to the study of media and democratisation. While aware of the limitations posed by the nature and scope of the sample of the studies reviewed, we do identify and discuss some of the potentially key obstacles to theory-building and propose some alternative paths of enquiry.']
[u'Local News Chatter: Augmenting Community News by Aggregating Hyperlocal Microblog Content in a Tag Cloud', u'Han, K (Han, Kyungsik); Shih, PC (Shih, Patrick C.); Carroll, JM (Carroll, John M.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Being aware of local community information is critical to maintaining civic engagement and participation. The use of online news and microblog content to create and disseminate community information has long been studied. However, interactions in the online spaces dedicated to local communities tend to only garner very limited usage, and people often do not consider microblog content as a meaningful source of local community information. Local News Chatter (LNC) was designed to address these challenges by augmenting local news feeds with microblog content and presenting them in a tag cloud that displays news topics of varying popularity with different tag sizes. Our study with 30 local residents highlights that LNC increases the visibility of hyperlocal community news information and successfully utilizes microblog as an additional information layer. LNC also increases one's community awareness and shows the potential for leveraging community knowledge as a deliberation platform for local topics."]
[u'Drivers of Quantity and Quality of Participation in Online Policy Deliberation Forums', u'Phang, CW (Phang, Chee Wei); Kankanhalli, A (Kankanhalli, Atreyi); Huang, LH (Huang, Lihua)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Online policy deliberation forums (OPDFs) have been increasingly initiated by governments to allow citizens to provide their input and discuss policy issues. Yet, failure to garner participation, in terms of both quantity and quality, prevents the realization of their benefits. In this regard, prior research has suggested different antecedents for the quantity and quality of participation in online forums, but without systematically considering their differences. To address this research gap, in this study we develop a theoretical model to explain the antecedents of quantity and quality of OPDF participation and test the model using a survey and content analysis of forum logs. The results indicate that quantity of participation is enhanced by the information-technology-enabled resource factor of communality but negatively influenced by collective incentives. In contrast, the antecedents of the quality of participation include both motivational and resource factors. Furthermore, communality accentuates the perceived collective incentives and persuasion benefit of participation. This study contributes to the research by proposing and testing a theoretical model that explains the different antecedents of the quantity and quality of participation in OPDFs. More broadly, the findings inform research and practice on how outcomes of web-enabled cocreation, such as those generated through OPDF participation, can be evaluated and enhanced in these online communities.']
[u'THE EFFECTIVENESS OF SOCIAL MEDIA IMPLEMENTATION AT LOCAL GOVERNMENT LEVELS', u'Nica, E (Nica, Elvira); Popescu, GH (Popescu, Gheorghe H.); Nicolaescu, E (Nicolaescu, Eugen); Constantin, VD (Constantin, Vlad Denis)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The purpose of this article is to gain a deeper understanding of the management of social media at the local government level, the availability of opportunities for citizen dialogue on government websites, and the impact that social net-working applications have on e-government. The results of the current study converge with prior research on the growing awareness amongst government practitioners regarding the relevance of social media, the use of social media for feed-back on service quality, and privacy and security commitments in e-government. The literature on the use of information technology to transform government, the potential for online government information to contribute to citizen engagement, and the rapid growth in local government use of social media is relevant to this discussion.']
[u'Multi-view visualizations for emergency communities of volunteers', u'Herranz, S (Herranz, Sergio); Romero-Gomez, R (Romero-Gomez, Rosa); Diaz, P (Diaz, Paloma); Onorati, T (Onorati, Teresa)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Information and communication technologies might empower emergency communities of volunteers by assisting community participation and improving their capacity to respond to unexpected events. However, designing technology for such purpose places unique visualization challenges that go beyond the current state of research on public participation tools and related technologies. Empowering these communities requires developing representations that enable collaborative reflection, promote mutual visibility of volunteers' efforts and sustain a shared view of the community. Similarly, it is necessary to envision visualizations that facilitate sense making of large, simultaneous and distributed pieces of heterogeneous information with different levels of credibility and priority. Accordingly, this paper identifies and characterizes these challenges to propose a multi-view and multi-abstraction-level visualization approach for emergency communities of volunteers. In particular, it combines time-oriented visualizations, space-filling visualization techniques, interaction mechanisms and coordinated maps to support community participation as well as collaborative and individual sense making. The application of these visualization techniques is discussed through the development of a set of design prototypes. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."]
[u'The Rally to Restore Sanity, Prepoliticization, and the Future of Politics', u'Reilly, I (Reilly, Ian); Boler, M (Boler, Megan)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This essay explores the significance of the 2010 Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear. Our analysis and discussion is grounded in findings from 40 interviews conducted at the rally on October 30, 2010, and in our close analyses of news coverage published between September 2010 and February 2011, online discussions from Comedy Central fan forums, the Rally to Restore Sanity Facebook site, and Twitter. We argue for the importance of understanding "prepoliticization" as a key phase of contemporary politics, particularly within a mediated public sphere such as this one. The Rally offers unique insight into how the convergence of entertainment and politics gives rise to new modes of civic participation, particularly for citizens who do not see themselves as "political."']
[u'Crisis Crowdsourcing Framework: Designing Strategic Configurations of Crowdsourcing for the Emergency Management Domain', u'Liu, SB (Liu, Sophia B.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Crowdsourcing is not a new practice but it is a concept that has gained substantial attention during recent disasters. Drawing from previous work in the crisis informatics, disaster sociology, and computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW) literature, this paper first explains recent conceptualizations of crowdsourcing and how crowdsourcing is a way of leveraging disaster convergence. The CSCW concept of "articulation work" is introduced as an interpretive frame for extracting the salient dimensions of "crisis crowdsourcing." Then, a series of vignettes are presented to illustrate the evolution of crisis crowdsourcing that spontaneously emerged after the 2010 Haiti earthquake and evolved to more established forms of public engagement during crises. The best practices extracted from the vignettes clarified the efforts to formalize crisis crowdsourcing through the development of innovative interfaces designed to support the articulation work needed to facilitate spontaneous volunteer efforts. Extracting these best practices led to the development of a conceptual framework that unpacks the key dimensions of crisis crowdsourcing. The Crisis Crowdsourcing Framework is a systematic, problem-driven approach to determining the why, who, what, when, where, and how aspects of a crowdsourcing system. The framework also draws attention to the social, technological, organizational, and policy (STOP) interfaces that need to be designed to manage the articulation work involved with reducing the complexity of coordinating across these key dimensions. An example of how to apply the framework to design a crowdsourcing system is offered with a discussion on the implications for applying this framework as well as the limitations of this framework. Innovation is occurring at the social, technological, organizational, and policy interfaces enabling crowdsourcing to be operationalized and integrated into official products and services.']
[u'The Role of Place Identity in Smart Card Adoption', u'Belanche, D (Belanche, Daniel); Casalo, LV (Casalo, Luis V.); Flavian, C (Flavian, Carlos)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Public administrations are launching smart cards for citizens' identification and access to local public services. Despite being focused on citizens' demands, there is a lack of acceptance of such initiatives. This study explores the key drivers of citizen adoption of smart cards and reveals that, in addition to utilitarian benefits, social processes, such as citizens' identification with the city, affect individual adoption. The effect of place identity is moderated by citizens' level of interdependence. The discussion highlights place branding and the support of local collectives as strategic governmental instruments for achieving a critical mass of smart card users."]
[u'News use, nationalism, and Internet use motivations as predictors of anti-Japanese political actions in China', u'Hyun, KD (Hyun, Ki Deuk); Kim, J (Kim, Jinhee); Sun, SJ (Sun, Shaojing)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Although the rise of nationalistic activism in the Chinese online sphere has drawn much scholarly attention, few studies have examined how nationalism, usages, and motivations of the Internet affect nationalistic actions among general Internet users in China. Using Sino-Japanese diplomatic disputes as a testing ground, this study investigates the effects of news use from traditional and new media, nationalistic attitudes, and motivations for Internet use on anti-Japanese political behaviors such as boycotting and protest participation. Analyses of online survey data revealed that nationalism is positively correlated with information-seeking and social-interaction motivations for Internet use regarding Sino-Japanese disputes. Results also showed that the stronger the motivation for using the Internet to discuss topics associated with Sino-Japanese disputes, the more likely respondents engaged in anti-Japanese behaviors. This study indicates that nationalistic attitudes and motivations involved in the use of new media technologies have significant effects on mobilizing supporters for anti-Japanese actions.']
[u"Electing to Play: MTV's Fantasy Election and Changes in Political Engagement Through Gameplay", u'Foxman, M (Foxman, Maxwell); Forelle, M (Forelle, Michelle)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"In 2012, MTV explored a new approach to voter engagement through Fantasy Election. The game had players draft candidates in the congressional and presidential elections onto personal teams in order to compete for points and prizes, which were distributed based not only on the candidates' actions but also when players themselves took action to become better informed and involved during the campaign. In the end, Fantasy Election drew over 10,000 active participants. This article scrutinizes the design and effect of the game by using data from MTV's exit survey of Fantasy Election users to explore whether and how games can be used to encourage voter engagement. By considering the self-reported motivations of players, and a broader discussion of the role of play, competition and reward in fostering political and civic participation, we consider how gamification strategies have ambivalent effects on developing a more informed and cooperative civil society."]
[u"TECHNOLOGY AND CITIZENS AN ANALYSIS OF CITIZENS' JURY ON THE KOREAN NATIONAL PANDEMIC RESPONSE SYSTEM", u'Lee, YH (Lee, Young Hee); Jin, DY (Jin, Dal Yong)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Due to technical complexity, most public policies in technological society are dominated by expert-centrism and technocracy (an institutional form of expert-centrism), based on the belief that they should be the exclusive realm of technical experts. But globally, expert-led and technocratic policy-making culture is faced with challenges. We analyse the democratic implications of the Korean experience of the citizens' jury, a form of citizens' deliberative participation. We document and examine the citizens' jury on the National Pandemic Response System in 2008, which was the first case of the citizens' jury in Korea. We conclude that such characteristics of citizens' jury present positive implications in realising deliberative democracy."]
[u"Teens' social media use and collective action", u'Seo, H (Seo, Hyunjin); Houston, JB (Houston, J. Brian); Knight, LAT (Knight, Leigh Anne Taylor); Kennedy, EJ (Kennedy, Emily J.); Inglish, AB (Inglish, Alexandra B.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This research examined how social self-efficacy, collective self-esteem, and need to belong can be used to predict teens' use of social media. The particular focus was on how these social psychological variables together with social media use account for variation in teens' participation in a flash mob - an exemplar of 21st-century collective action. Empirical data come from a survey of teens in a major Midwestern city in the USA. Teens' need to belong was positively associated with the amount of time they reported spending on social networking sites, even when controlling for gender, race, and household socio-economic status. Both teens' social self-efficacy and time spent on YouTube were positively associated with their intention to participate in a flash mob in the future. These and other findings are discussed in the context of the role of social media in youth culture and collective action."]
[u'Hacker science versus closed science: building environmental monitoring infrastructure', u'Hemmi, A (Hemmi, Akiko); Graham, I (Graham, Ian)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The Fukushima Daiichi accident in March 2011 created a need by both public agencies and citizens for data on the levels of radionuclide contamination across Japan. In response to this need two systems emerged to collect radiation data using mobile sensors and publish it on the internet: KURAMA, developed by Kyoto University, and Safecast, developed by an ad hoc group of volunteers with their roots in the hacker community. Where KURAMA followed a conventional closed innovation model, Safecast used open-source components to generate freely available open data within an open community of heterogeneous expertise. By drawing on the epistemic foundations of the open source and hacker movements, Safecast developed the artefacts of the sensor network and the procedures for producing reliable and accepted measurements. Both approaches resulted in the rapid development of systems able to build radiation maps, but the open Safecast community was able to build their system at lower cost by enrolling volunteers, gaining crowdsourced donations, creating a global forum to discuss methods and using open-source components. The commitment to open data led Safecast to avoid interpreting the data that they collected which in turn reduced the risk of them being seen as an anti-nuclear activist organization. Safecast's model of creating an open global community has been seen to work in Japan and both the widely disseminated lessons learned and the open-source components developed will provide a template for citizen-led responses to future environmental incidents elsewhere in the world."]
[u'Deconstructing the community radio model: Applying practice to theory in East Africa', u'Conrad, D (Conrad, David)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Community radio is often theorized as being (1) independent from political and economic influence and (2) a platform for the meaningful engagement of marginalized populations traditionally excluded by its private and commercial cousins. Contrasting this theoretical model against the reality of practice, this study argues that the theorized benefits of community radio are unlikely to be realized given the reality of donor, rather than community, funding structures. Voices from 64 in-depth interviews reveal a community radio environment in East Africa that is significantly influenced by the interests - both political and economic - of external donors. Rather than engendering meaningful participation in media-making, this study also demonstrates that donor funding has caused some communities to assume recipient roles in the communication process.']
[u'Social Media, Political Expression, and Political Participation: Panel Analysis of Lagged and Concurrent Relationships', u'de Zuniga, HG (Gil de Zuniga, Homero); Molyneux, L (Molyneux, Logan); Zheng, P (Zheng, Pei)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article relies on U. S. 2-wave panel data to examine the role of social media as a sphere for political expression and its effects on political participation. Informational uses of social media are expected to explain political expression on social media and to promote political participation. This study clarifies the effect of using social media for social interaction in fostering political expression and participation processes. Results indicate that social media news use has direct effects on offline political participation and indirect effects on offline and online political participation mediated via political expression. Furthermore, social media use for social interaction does not have direct influence in people's political engagement, but rather an indirect effect by means of citizens expressing themselves politically."]
[u'Selective exposure and agenda setting: exploring the impact of partisan media exposure on agenda diversity and political participation', u'Chan, M (Chan, Michael); Lee, FLF (Lee, Francis L. F.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'A deliberative democracy calls for citizens who are well informed about a diverse range of public issues and a media system that shapes the public agenda for deliberation and consensus building. However, with the current proliferation of a high-choice media environment, citizens can engage in partisan selective exposure by only consuming news that matches their own political attitudes and dispositions. This study examines two under-researched effects of partisan selective exposure: (1) the reduction in the number of societal issues that individuals consider important (i.e., nominal agenda diversity) and (2) the reduction in the variety of issues (i.e., thematic agenda diversity). A national survey was conducted in Hong Kong, a transitional democracy with a highly partisan media environment. The results showed that although reading more newspapers is positively related to nominal agenda diversity and thematic agenda diversity, citizens who receive their news only from partisan newspapers are less likely to be interested in a range of public issues and are less able to name pressing societal issues. Moreover, both nominal and thematic diversities predicted political participation, though not political discussion. The findings provide supporting evidence that partisan selective exposure can lead to a fragmented public agenda.']
[u'Upstream public engagement, downstream policy-making? The Brain Imaging Dialogue as a community of inquiry', u'Escobar, O (Escobar, Oliver)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"UK science and policy networks increasingly advocate 'upstream public engagement', that is, early public deliberation around potentially controversial science and technology. In the last two decades, neuroscience has advanced considerably, and non-medical uses of brain imaging technologies (BIT) are now raising substantial concerns. The 2010 Brain Imaging Dialogue (BID) brought together scientists, health practitioners, sociologists, philosophers, ethicists, religious representatives, citizens, policy-makers and legal experts to deliberate on non-medical uses of BIT. I present the BID as a community of inquiry that sought to stimulate policy deliberation in Scotland. The paper tells the story of the process from the perspective of the public engagement practitioners who organised it, drawing lessons about the community of inquiry method and concluding with reflections on the challenges of connecting upstream engagement to ongoing policy-making. Taking cues from practitioners' experiences, I propose an institutional mechanism for the uptake of outputs from deliberative processes."]
[u'Sustainable Development Planning: A Case of Public Participation using Online Forums', u'Martin, NJ (Martin, Nigel J.); Rice, JL (Rice, John L.); Lodhia, SK (Lodhia, Sumit K.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Public participation in Sustainable Development Planning (SDP) of cities represents significant challenges to governments and private organizations responsible for developing infrastructure. In this study, a regional government used a series of electronic discussion papers and questions to enable online forum discussions and exchanges between 196 participants on the major SDP issues related to city development up to 2030. This study used a rigorous and structured QSR nvivo analysis of 690 online forum postings to determine the participants' major SDP concerns for the city over a 20-year period. The collective results of the investigation show that future integrated transport networks, higher density residential and commercial land use, and sustainable population growth are still the subject of concern and intense debate among forum participants, SDP experts and the government. The research also demonstrates the capacity of green information and technology systems to serve as important mechanisms for SDP participation and consultation. Copyright (c) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and ERP Environment"]
[u'Engaged Youth in the Internet. The Role of Social Networks in Social Active Participation', u'Garcia-Galera, MC (Garcia-Galera, Maria-Carmen); del-Hoyo-Hurtado, M (del-Hoyo-Hurtado, Mercedes); Fernandez-Munoz, C (Fernandez-Munoz, Cristobal)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This paper contributes to the analysis of the role that social networks play in civic, social mobilization and solidarity of Spanish young people, considering whether social networks are responsible for active social commitment offline or if they just intensify an existing or previous tendency towards social participation. This research was undertaken by online questionnaire -Likert scale and multiple choice questions-in collaboration with the Spanish social network Tuenti where more than 1,300 young people took part. The results show significant percentages of participation exclusively online although there were more than 80% of young people, in a way or another, involved in actions to which they were called by social networks. The study analyzes the forms of participation in solidarity actions and the influence of factors such as geographical, social or emotional proximity to causes on the degree of participation online and offline. The article shows that social networks have changed the meaning of participation. They are encouraging young people who were mobilized only in social networks, to take action, so it proposes in its conclusions the need to overcome the dichotomy that opposes online and offline activism and passivity.']
[u'Evaluation on crowdsourcing research: Current status and future direction', u'Zhao, YX (Zhao, Yuxiang); Zhu, QH (Zhu, Qinghua)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Crowdsourcing is one of the emerging Web 2.0 based phenomenon and has attracted great attention from both practitioners and scholars over the years. It can facilitate the connectivity and collaboration of people, organizations, and societies. We believe that Information Systems scholars are in a unique position to make significant contributions to this emerging research area and consider it as a new research frontier. However, so far, few studies have elaborated what have been achieved and what should be done. This paper seeks to present a critical examination of the substrate of crowdsourcing research by surveying the landscape of existing studies, including theoretical foundations, research methods, and research foci, and identifies several important research directions for IS scholars from three perspectives-the participant, organization, and system-and which warrant further study. This research contributes to the IS literature and provides insights for researchers, designers, policy-makers, and managers to better understand various issues in crowdsourcing systems and projects.']
[u'OMGs! Offline-based movement organizations, online-based movement organizations and network mobilization: a case study of political bloggers in Singapore', u'Soon, C (Soon, Carol); Cho, HC (Cho, Hichang)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The proliferation of Internet technologies has paved the way for technology adoption among marginalized communities and individuals for advancing varied political and civic agendas. Social movement scholars advocate that technology is becoming an integral component of the social movement repertoire, and building on their work, Internet scholars have examined the evolving nature of movement organizations and formal networks. Adopting resource mobilization and social network theories as the conceptual framework, this study examines political bloggers' social networks. Through 41 in-depth interviews and 76 survey responses, we collected data on political bloggers' activism participation and their organizational affiliations. Social networking patterns are linked to different organizational affiliation types - membership with formal organizations rooted in the offline context; membership with issue-based online organizations which assume a temporal nature and non-membership. Focusing on the dialectics between offline and online, permanence and temporality, the study showed that activists who belonged to offline-based organizations experienced greater social influence and collectiveness with one another. However, activist bloggers who belonged to online-based groups shared strong ties and sustained communication even after a campaign ended. More significantly, the findings show that online movement groups, although temporal in nature, foster what Sunstein [(2009). Republic.com 2.0 (pp. 19-45). Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press] termed as 'enclave deliberation', attributed to the inclusive and open networks of online-based movement organizations."]
[u"Improving the policy application of footprint indicators to support Europe's transition to a one planet economy: The development of the EUREAPA tool", u'Roelich, K (Roelich, Katy); Owen, A (Owen, Anne); Thompson, D (Thompson, David); Dawkins, E (Dawkins, Elena); West, C (West, Chris)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Environmentally extended multi-regional input-output (EE-MR10) models provide us with a wealth of data relating to consumption-based environmental impacts at a national level. The results can identify the categories of consumption and sectors of production that contribute most to environmental impact allowing policy makers to prioritise intervention into particular areas. However, these data are not readily accessible to policy makers and civil society, making it difficult to extract and communicate the important messages it contains.The web-based tool-EUREAPA-was created as a usable, task-oriented interface to improve access to environmental and economic data held within a complex EE-MRIO model and make it more relevant to policy makers and civil society. The project team of scientists and IT specialists used an iterative, agile and participatory approach to engage potential end-users in the specification and testing of the tool.The engagement process identified two principal functions that were essential for the EUREAPA tool: viewing data and creating scenarios. The viewing data function allows users to analyse the wealth of data held within the model and present results from a range of perspectives. This helps to understand the causes of environmental pressure and identify priorities for policy intervention. The scenario function helps to communicate how changes in consumption and production might affect the future environmental impact of citizens of the EU, and facilitates long-term planning.Through this dialogue process the project has been able to ensure EUREAPA is relevant, user-friendly and fit-forpurpose. It is intended that EUREAPA will be adopted by policy makers and civil society as an important policy planning and assessment aid in the complex field of sustainable consumption and production. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.']
[u'Public understanding of participation in regulatory decision-making: The case of bottled water quality standards in India', u'Bhaduri, S (Bhaduri, Saradindu); Sharma, A (Sharma, Aviram)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'"Science-based" standards are an integral part of modern regulatory systems. Studies on "public understanding of science" mostly focus on high technology areas in advanced economies. In contrast, the present study analyses the public understanding of regulation in the context of standard-setting for bottled water quality in India. Using primary data, the econometric models of this paper show that public understanding of participation in regulation depends on awareness of, and trust in, existing regulatory practices in a complex, non-linear manner. In this light, the paper argues that "deficit model" and "dialogue model" frameworks cannot be seen as two mutually exclusive frameworks of analyses.']
[u'Citizen Motivation on the Go: The Role of Psychological Empowerment', u'Goncalves, J (Goncalves, Jorge); Kostakos, V (Kostakos, Vassilis); Karapanos, E (Karapanos, Evangelos); Barreto, M (Barreto, Mary); Camacho, T (Camacho, Tiago); Tomasic, A (Tomasic, Anthony); Zimmerman, J (Zimmerman, John)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Although advances in technology now enable people to communicate 'anytime, anyplace', it is not clear how citizens can be motivated to actually do so. This paper evaluates the impact of three principles of psychological empowerment, namely perceived self-efficacy, sense of community and causal importance, on public transport passengers' motivation to report issues and complaints while on the move. A week-long study with 65 participants revealed that self-efficacy and causal importance increased participation in short bursts and increased perceptions of service quality over longer periods. Finally, we discuss the implications of these findings for citizen participation projects and reflect on design opportunities for mobile technologies that motivate citizen participation."]
[u'"Parallel poleis": Towards a theoretical framework of the modern public sphere, civic engagement and the structural advantages of the internet to foster and maintain parallel socio-political institutions', u'Lagos, TG (Lagos, Taso G.); Coopman, TM (Coopman, Ted M.); Tomhave, J (Tomhave, Jonathan)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The role of the internet in large-scale demonstrations, as witnessed in the Arab Spring, has been debated and reflects continued interest in the intermingling of social movements and digital technology. Yet behind these large photogenic events stand other less obvious social activities that may be equally profound, particularly in the form of alternative institutional frameworks that better meet the social needs of individuals than current models. We categorize these "dissident" frameworks as "parallel poleis" as developed by Czech philosopher and activist Vaclav Benda and offer two case studies to support this contention. At the heart of parallel poleis lies the notion that digital technologies are uniquely positioned to reflect and facilitate the political expressions of individuals due to low-cost transactions, ease of use and large social network reach possibilities. The sociopolitical ramifications of a parallel polis as conceptualizing the social-technical interaction warrants further discussion.']
[u'Political consumerism: Civic engagement and the social media connection', u'de Zuniga, HG (de Zuniga, Homero Gil); Copeland, L (Copeland, Lauren); Bimber, B (Bimber, Bruce)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'An ongoing debate concerns the extent to which political consumerism constitutes political behavior. To address this debate, researchers have examined several predictors of political consumerism, but have not focused on its communicative dimensions, especially with respect to digital media. In this study we conceptualize political consumerism as a form of civic engagement, and we theorize that people who use social media are more likely to engage in political consumerism than those who do not. Using original survey data collected in the US, we find that political consumerism is more closely related to civic engagement than it is to political participation, and that use of social media mediates the relationship between general Internet use and political consumerism.']
[u'Utilizing "On Tap" Experts in Deliberative Forums: Implications for Design', u'Sprain, L (Sprain, Leah); Carcasson, M (Carcasson, Martin); Merolla, AJ (Merolla, Andy J.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Experts play important roles in supporting public deliberation. These roles include developing and vetting background materials, participating in question-and-answer sessions with citizens, and giving pubic presentations. Rarely, though, are experts asked to be on hand during deliberative forums, whereby they have the opportunity to interact with deliberating groups. The inclusion of experts during forums presents a tension because, although they can elevate the quality of the conversation by correcting factual errors, they can also, perhaps unknowingly, crowd out and silence citizen, or "nonexpert," participation. Careful consideration of communication design can help public deliberation practitioners manage this tension so that experts, when involved in forums, enhance rather than undermine the deliberative process. Taking communication as design, we analyze the interaction of an invited expert at a water scarcity forum in Northern Colorado who derailed discussion and hindered dialogue by "going rogue." We then turn to stasis theory to conceptualize the effective inclusion of technical experts in public deliberations. Through forum design and training practices, we propose that experts can help resolve issues of conjecture and definition in a manner that frees deliberating groups to discuss substantive and subjective issues of quality and policy.']
[u'Expectations and Experiences With MyLabourParty: From Right to Know to Right to Participate?', u'Luders, M (Luders, Marika); Folstad, A (Folstad, Asbjorn); Waldal, E (Waldal, Espen)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Social media are often argued to change political communication, decreasing the distance between politicians and citizens, and increasing citizens' influence on policymaking. This paper presents findings from a study of how the Norwegian Labour Party uses social media, focusing on the community platform MyLabourParty. Interviews with politicians and a survey with citizens as respondents were conducted to examine the experiences of online political discussions. Findings show that citizens and politicians expect MyLabourParty to strengthen citizen participation. Yet, citizens still experience communication asymmetry and politicians may find it challenging to participate to the extent citizens expect. Means for bridging the gap between expectations and experiences are called for, in particular redefinition of the offering, changes of user-practices, and system improvements."]
[u'Preaching to the choir: Internet-mediated advocacy, issue public mobilization, and climate change', u'Hestres, LE (Hestres, Luis E.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Despite the impact that Internet-mediated advocacy organizations have had on American politics over the last decade, we are still learning about how they work. This is even truer for Internet-mediated issue specialists that focus on a single issue, such as climate change. Based on interviews with key staff members of two climate change advocacy campaigns, this article examines how these organizations communicate and mobilize citizens around their issue and the underlying assumptions behind their strategies. Interviews revealed a focus on like-minded issue public mobilization and online-to-offline social movement building strategies. The paper also examines how these organizations can influence policy debates by mobilizing issue publics, shifting debates to more favorable public arenas, and reframing them in ways more favorable to their causes. Implications for the future of climate policy and Internet-mediated advocacy research are discussed.']
[u'Influences of HR Practices, Social Exchange, and Trust on Turnover Intentions of Public IT Professionals', u'Erturk, A (Erturk, Alper)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The purpose of this study is to explore the role of high-involvement human resource (HR) practices, perceived organizational support (POS), leader-member exchange (LMX), and organizational trust in lessening turnover intentions of information technology (IT) professionals working in Turkish public organizations. A total of 197 IT professionals participated in the study. The results indicate that POS fully mediates the relationships from (a) participation in decision making, (b) information sharing, and (c) fair rewards to turnover intentions; and partially mediates the relationship between recognition and turnover intentions. Moreover, it is also found that LMX fully mediates the association between information sharing and turnover intentions; and partially mediates the relationship between recognition and turnover intentions. In addition, it is yielded that trust in organization moderates the relationship between POS and turnover intentions, whereas trust in supervisor moderates the relationship between LMX and turnover intentions.']
[u'The Role of Digital Skills in the Formation of Generalized Trust Among Latinos and African Americans in the United States', u'Monforti, JL (Monforti, Jessica Lavariega); Marichal, J (Marichal, Jose)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'A number of scholars have noted a digital skill divide among racial and ethnic groups in the United States (e.g. Hargittai, 2002). The ability to leverage information communication technologies (ICTs) in productive ways has been linked to greater levels of prodemocratic attitudes and behaviors (Horrigan, Wellman, & Rainie, 2006; Valenzuela, Park, & Kee, 2009; Vitak et al., 2011). However, no work to date has explored how this relationship between digital skills and political behavior is mediated by racial and ethnic identity. Using an ordered logistic regression to analyze a 2010 PEW data set of social media use, we test the proposition that proficiency in digital skills enhances generalized trust among Latinos and African Americans. We find that the acquisition of digital skills is associated with generalized trust for African Americans but not for Latinos or Anglo-Americans. Our work suggests that ICTs in general and digital skills in particular might provide a distinct pathway to enhance generalized trust for African Americans, a key precondition for civic engagement for historically marginalized groups in the U.S. society. We discuss the implications of this research for enhancing generalized trust among historically marginalized groups in the United States.']
[u'The Interplay Between Digital and Political Divides: The Case of e-Petitioning in Taiwan', u'Lee, CP (Lee, Chung-pin); Chen, DY (Chen, Don-yun); Huang, TY (Huang, Tong-yi)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Political scientists have long been aware of the problem of unequal participation in democratic politics, the phenomenon we can call political divide. The emergence of information and communication technologies over recent years has sparked a discussion on whether this long-standing political divide can now be resolved by e-democracy. This study aims to answer two questions: (i) Can e-democracy, specifically e-petitions, attract traditional nonparticipants to participate in public affairs? (ii) In the context of promoting e-petitions, can digital divide alleviate the problem of political divide? The data used in this study were collected from a national poll on citizen experience of and willingness to participate in the petitioning for referendum. The results indicate that those who recall participating in paper petitions tended to be older, less educated, and with stronger party identification. Also, our results reveal that these people who can be effectively mobilized by traditional social networks are mostly, in fact, the digital have-nots. Furthermore, regarding the potential participants in e-petitions, we find that those digital haves, who had not been mobilized in previous paper-based petition sessions, were more likely to participate in e-petitions if they are implemented in the future. The results demonstrate the existence of a possible negative correlation between the political and the digital divide. This suggests that e-democracy might be potentially beneficial to alleviate the long worried negative effects of the political divide in democratic polity.']
[u'Promoting Parenting to Support Reintegrating Military Families: After Deployment, Adaptive Parenting Tools', u'Gewirtz, AH (Gewirtz, Abigail H.); Pinna, KLM (Pinna, Keri L. M.); Hanson, SK (Hanson, Sheila K.); Brockberg, D (Brockberg, Dustin)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The high operational tempo of the current conflicts and the unprecedented reliance on National Guard and Reserve forces highlights the need for services to promote reintegration efforts for those transitioning back to civilian family life. Despite evidence that parenting has significant influence on children's functioning, and that parenting may be impaired during stressful family transitions, there is a dearth of empirically supported psychological interventions tailored for military families reintegrating after deployment. This article reports on the modification of an empirically supported parenting intervention for families in which a parent has deployed to war. A theoretical rationale for addressing parenting during reintegration after deployment is discussed. We describe the intervention, After Deployment, Adaptive Parenting Tools (ADAPT), and report early feasibility and acceptability data from a randomized controlled effectiveness trial of ADAPT, a 14-week group-based, Web-enhanced parenting training program. Among the first 42 families assigned to the intervention group, participation rates were high, and equal among mothers and fathers. Satisfaction was high across all 14 sessions. Implications for psychological services to military families dealing with the deployment process are discussed."]
[u'Crowd science: The organization of scientific research in open collaborative projects', u'Franzoni, C (Franzoni, Chiara); Sauermann, H (Sauermann, Henry)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'A growing amount of scientific research is done in an open collaborative fashion, in projects sometimes referred to as "crowd science", "citizen science", or "networked science". This paper seeks to gain a more systematic understanding of crowd science and to provide scholars with a conceptual framework and an agenda for future research. First, we briefly present three case examples that span different fields of science and illustrate the heterogeneity concerning what crowd science projects do and how they are organized. Second, we identify two fundamental elements that characterize crowd science projects - open participation and open sharing of intermediate inputs - and distinguish crowd science from other knowledge production regimes such as innovation contests or traditional "Mertonian" science. Third, we explore potential knowledge-related and motivational benefits that crowd science offers over alternative organizational modes, and potential challenges it is likely to face. Drawing on prior research on the organization of problem solving, we also consider for what kinds of tasks particular benefits or challenges are likely to be most pronounced. We conclude by outlining an agenda for future research and by discussing implications for funding agencies and policy makers. (C) 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved,']
[u'The Influence of Media Use on Environmental Engagement: A Political Socialization Approach', u'Ostman, J (Ostman, Johan)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Current research suggests that the media play an important part in informing and engaging citizens in environmental issues. Building on these findings, this study adopts a political socialization approach to citizens' involvement in everyday-life pro-environmental behavior. Multivariate analysis of recent survey data from Swedish adolescents (N = 1148) demonstrates direct as well as indirect relationships between frequency of news media use, talk about environmental issues with parents and peers, and extent of pro-environmental behavior. The findings are consistent with the notion that news media use promotes behavior by raising awareness of environmental issues. The results are also discussed in terms of a citizen-communication framework according to which interpersonal communication translates environmental information gleaned from news sources to adolescents' everyday-life reality, thereby motivating pro-environmental behavior. Future directions for examining causal mechanisms in more detail are discussed."]
[u'Local Democracy in a Digital Age: Lessons for Local Government from the Manchester Congestion Charge Referendum', u'Hepburn, P (Hepburn, Paul)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Local government in England has, in general, struggled with exploiting the much heralded democratic potential of the Internet. Evaluations of the local e-democracy initiatives, funded as part of the New Labour Government's e-government programme, were largely unfavourable. Since this initiative ended usage of the Internet has arguably reached a critical mass opening new opportunities for local policy makers interested in more effectively involving citizens in the local decision-making process. This article illustrates these opportunities by drawing on new empirical evidence of the online political activity associated with the 2008 Manchester Congestion Charge referendum. It also serves to highlight the political challenges facing local government and argues that if the Internet is to be used for strengthening local democracy then local government must become a fit for purpose institution and develop strategies that tackle the online influence of vested economic interests and the problem of enacting local citizenship online."]
[u'Online political participation, civic talk, and media multiplexity: how Taiwanese citizens express political opinions on the Web', u'Hsieh, YP (Hsieh, Yuli Patrick); Li, MH (Li, Meng-Hao)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This study seeks to assess the implications of the social use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) for online political participation. Past research investigating the link between ICTs and political participation has emphasized the informational use of ICTs, overlooking their communication-enabling potentials for facilitating political talk in interpersonal spaces and subsequently, political participation in public domains. To understand further how ICTs as a means of communication may relate to political participation, we use data from the 2008 Taiwan Social Change Survey (N=1076) to examine the relationship between the Internet and online political participation by looking at online media use for social interaction and engagement in civic talk online. Our findings suggest that interpersonal factors such as online civic talk and media multiplexity are positively associated with online political participation. Individuals who discuss politics with their friends via the Internet and those who use more types of online media for social interaction are more likely to contact legislators and elected officials directly via the Web and articulate their political thoughts in online public spaces such as forums, blogs, and websites of news media. We further offer an assessment of the findings' implications for political participation, political communication, and digital inequality."]
[u'Expanding civic engagement in China: Super Girl and entertainment-based online community', u'Wu, JC (Wu, Jingsi Christina)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article pursues a context-rich understanding of how digital media offer unique opportunities for citizens residing in mainland China to participate in civic engagement and organize their civic values. While the Chinese state authority keeps a heavy hand in any form of media, old or new, for use of overt political expressions, I provide empirical demonstration of the link between entertainment media experiences and the exchange on more serious civic topics. In doing so, I argue for a more expanded notion of civic engagement for political environments such as China and develop an empirical scheme that incorporates ordinary citizens' interactions with more leisure-oriented media texts. Such theoretical and empirical moves, as I point out, can contribute to a more thoughtful discussion of the Internet and civic engagement in China. Furthermore, this article pays particular attention to how the Internet provides a valuable channel for community formation among ordinary Chinese citizens outside the mainstream media, which are mostly occupied by state elites. My examination suggests that the Internet helps online discussants reach further depth in their extension from entertainment discussion to constructing serious discourses on important social issues, more so than the mainstream newspapers."]
[u'Citizenship and Political Participation in Colombia: How Orientations Toward Citizenship Associate with Political and Civic Behaviors', u'Barnidge, M (Barnidge, Matthew); Macafee, T (Macafee, Timothy); Alvarez, G (Alvarez, German); Rojas, H (Rojas, Hernando)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study identifies social-psychological variables that predict various types of political and civic behaviors in Colombia. While previous research shows declines in civic-group membership, it also shows increases in other forms of participation. Using data from a national biennial survey of an urban adult population, we construct a two-by-two typology of political efficacy and trust in governmental institutions. We use subsequent hierarchical regression analysis to show that citizenship orientation is a significant factor in predicting interactive-interpersonal, community, and online engagement.']
[u'Comparative analysis of the National Civil Fund and the National Cooperation Fund', u'Nagy, A (Nagy Adam)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The study compares the 3-3 years operation of the National Civil Fund and the National Cooperation Fund on basis of 10 criteria:I for External factors:1 role how the funding system is defined and what is its self-definition;2 legal environment how rational, seamless and stable is the legal set up of the funding system;3 financial structure what amount and structure of the resources.II Structure:1 structure what are the decision-making rights, responsibilities and the autonomy of the financial system;2 civil participation, autonomy, subsidiarity how involve the system the clients how they can control the resource-providing systems actors;3 objectivity how eliminate the decision-making the subjective elements.III Processes:1 transparency how transparent and public the decisions;2 realisation how is the management system, how much time is an application cycle;3 interactivity what the communication space between the client and the funding system, how is the information structure, is there possibilities for applicants' feedback.IV Development opportunities:1 development how plannable is the development, is there a development concept, whose competence is it."]
[u'Democracy in disguise: the use of social media in reviewing the Icelandic Constitution', u'Valtysson, B (Valtysson, Bjarki)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The aim of this article is to scrutinise the participative processes enabled by social media services in the collaborative rewriting of the Icelandic Constitution. The Constitutional Council creating and presenting the bill made use of Facebook, YouTube, Flickr, Twitter, and its own stjornlagarad.is site to encourage and ensure engagement and participation by the general public in the rewriting process. This article presents the participating citizens as a weak networked public, the Constitutional Council as an intermediate public, and the members of Icelandic Parliament as a strong public. Despite open structures and the facilitation of information, statements, and in some cases deliberation, the communicative efforts of the general public remain in the form of weak publics belonging to the cultural public spheres since decision-making still takes place in the 'upper' structures of political public spheres."]
[u'Talking to the Broadcasters on Twitter: Networked Gatekeeping in Twitter Conversations with Journalists', u'Xu, WW (Xu, Weiai Wayne); Feng, M (Feng, Miao)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Drawing upon the theory of networked gatekeeping, this study describes how citizens engage in Twitter conversations with journalists and illustrates the power dynamic between traditional gatekeepers (journalists) and the gated (news audience). The power dynamic is discussed along four attributes of the gated political power, information production ability, relationship with gatekeepers, and information alternatives. Results show that citizens interacted with gatekeepers by sharing information/opinion, social chats, and self-serving promotion of individual opinions and agendas. Politically active citizens interacted more often with journalists who share similar ideology. The citizens have varying degrees of political power, reflected by their different levels of involvement and influence in political discourse online. The implications for gatekeeping are also addressed.']
[u'Promoting online deliberation quality: cognitive cues matter', u'Manosevitch, E (Manosevitch, Edith); Steinfeld, N (Steinfeld, Nili); Lev-On, A (Lev-On, Azi)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This research aims to contribute to the theory and practice of e-participation, looking specifically at ways to enhance the deliberative quality of political discussions in online forums. Building on theories of information processing and social norms, we suggest that particular visual banners may be integrated in an online forum, and serve as cues that prime participants to think about the context as a place of public deliberation. In turn, we hypothesize that these cues would promote the deliberative quality of the discussion. To test our hypotheses, we conducted a controlled experiment where cues were integrated as visuals banners alongside the content of an online discussion forum. Content analysis of forum comments (N = 476) included measures for reasoned opinion expression as well as indicators of listening and respecting others' opinions. Findings support the study's hypotheses that deliberative cues matter for online deliberation. We discuss the findings and outline directions for future research."]
[u"The prospect of civility in Indonesians' online polarized political discussions", u'Molaei, H (Molaei, Hamideh)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This paper aims to investigate the level of civility of Indonesians' political discussions on Facebook. Civility, which has always been an important concept in online political discussion, is particularly significant when there is diversity of opinions and disputation. While previous studies have focused more upon factors such as anonymity's role and its relevance to civility, this paper proposes two further important factors: (1) diversity of opinion and disagreement in discussion and (2) the cultural context of the country and how it determines civility and politeness in online debate. Qualitative content analysis of Indonesians' political discussions on Facebook revealed that polarized political views and the people's politeness culture were two significant factors underpinning the high level of civility in political discussion."]
[u'The Role of Universities in Urban Regeneration: Reframing the Analytical Approach', u'Fernandez-Esquinas, M (Fernandez-Esquinas, Manuel); Pinto, H (Pinto, Hugo)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Universities have resources for urban dynamics that are difficult to provide by other means. For this reason, these organizations are crucial actors in urban regeneration. This article sets out a conceptual framework for the analysis of the role played by higher education institutions in urban renewal initiatives. It is based on an integrated analysis of the uses of the university both as promoters of business innovation and in terms of their civic and social outcomes. Urban regeneration of cities in decline is used as a "strategic research site" to understand universities\' potential. The discussion is organized around four types of contributions: physical infrastructure, human resources, economic development and civic engagement. The debate enlightens the options for integrating universities\' capabilities as an asset for urban regeneration and sets out implications for the institutionalization of practices and decision-making in this field.']
[u'Communicating the Right to Know: Social Media in the Do-It-Yourself Air Quality Testing Campaign in Chinese', u'Xu, JH (Xu, Janice Hua)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article studies communication activities in the do-it-yourself air quality testing initiatives in multiple cities in China, through interviews with leaders of small nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and analyses of their blogging contents. To advocate for more transparency in pollution data, in particular the hazardous PM2.5 particles, environmental NGOs mobilized volunteers to measure air quality and post the results online. The article examines how the DIY activism constitutes citizen participation and political involvement through informal and diffused ways of collective action. It studies the role of the Internet in facilitating the formation of a collective identity, which might be temporary and fragile. The article also discusses how grassroots DIY activities in a post-Communist country like China differ from those in the West.']
[u'Eliciting situated feedback: A comparison of paper, web forms and public displays', u'Goncalves, J (Goncalves, Jorge); Hosio, S (Hosio, Simo); Liu, Y (Liu, Yong); Kostakos, V (Kostakos, Vassilis)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Interactive displays are becoming an increasingly popular civic engagement mechanism for collecting user feedback in urban settings. However, to date no study has investigated (i) how the situatedness of public displays affects the quantity and quality of collected feedback, and (ii) how public displays compare to traditional paper or web feedback mechanisms. We answer these research questions in a series of lab and field studies. We demonstrate that because people tend to approach this technology with no specific purpose in mind, the feedback collected with public displays is noisier than web and paper forms. However, we also show that public displays attract much more feedback than web and paper forms, and generate much more interest. Furthermore, we found that users appropriated our technology beyond its original purpose. Our analysis provides implications on the tradeoffs of using public displays as a feedback mechanism, and we discuss ways of improving the collected feedback using public displays. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.']
[u'Playful Civic Learning: Enabling Reflection and Lateral Trust in Game-based Public Participation', u'Gordon, E (Gordon, Eric); Baldwin-Philippi, J (Baldwin-Philippi, Jessica)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Attempts to improve participation in civic life often focus on increasing the number of citizens engaged rather than improving the quality of engagement. As digital interventions flood the civic space, investigating the mediating interfaces that provide opportunities for deeper engagement becomes necessary. This article engages in design-based research that assesses the affordances and effects of one such platform: an interactive online game for local engagement called Community Plan It (CPI). Drawing on an analysis of game mechanics, in-game actions, and interviews and focus groups with players, we ask if and how CPI can move citizen participation beyond isolated transactions. We draw two conclusions: CPI creates and strengthens trust among individuals and local community groups that is linked to confidence in the process of engaging, and it encourages interactive practices of engagement that we define as civic learning.']
[u'Engaging with the political imaginaries of science: Near misses and future targets', u'Nowotny, H (Nowotny, Helga)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The current economic and financial crisis is also a political crisis that requires a rethinking of public engagement with science. In the past, the dominant focus of science, technology and society (STS) has led to a blind spot: political understanding and engagement of policy-makers and politicians with science, which is an integral part of any public engagement. Arguably, it is bound to and emerges from what Ezrahi calls collective political imaginaries. These are necessary fictions, which are causative and performative. In crude form, they manifest themselves in short-term impact measurements of every unit of scientific activity with citizens as the fictitious ultimate beneficiaries. In the future, STS can gain from coming up with a workable definition of the public interest with a focus on the public value of science. It can investigate collective imaginaries as they emerge from interactions with new media. As necessary fictions they may hold answers we never imagined them to hold.']
[u'Building the capacity for public engagement with science in the United States', u'Guston, DH (Guston, David H.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This paper reviews efforts of the Center for Nanotechnology in Society at Arizona State University (CNS-ASU) to begin to build capacity for public engagement with science in the United States. First, the paper sets a context in the US of the current challenges to democracy and for science. It then reviews the literature on the accomplishments of the National Citizens' Technology Forum (NCTF) on nanotechnology and human enhancement, held in 2008, as well as some caveats that emerged from that enterprise. It concludes with a brief discussion of two kinds of activities - participation in the World Wide Views process organized by the Danish Board of Technology, and methodological innovations that include more concrete and experiential modes of engagement - that have spun off from the NCTF."]
[u'Ecological validity and the study of publics: The case for organic public engagement methods', u'Gehrke, PJ (Gehrke, Pat J.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This essay argues for a method of public engagement grounded in the criteria of ecological validity. Motivated by what Hammersly called the responsibility that comes with intellectual authority: to seek, as far as possible, to ensure the validity of their conclusions and to participate in rational debate about those conclusions (1993: 29), organic public engagement follows the empirical turn in citizenship theory and in rhetorical studies of actually existing publics. Rather than shaping citizens into either the compliant subjects of the cynical view or the deliberatively disciplined subjects of the idealist view, organic public engagement instead takes Asen's advice that we should ask: how do people enact citizenship? (2004: 191). In short, organic engagement methods engage publics in the places where they already exist and through those discourses and social practices by which they enact their status as publics. Such engagements can generate practical middle-range theories that facilitate future actions and decisions that are attentive to the local ecologies of diverse publics."]
[u'Education, outreach, and inclusive engagement: Towards integrated indicators of successful program outcomes in participatory science', u'Haywood, BK (Haywood, Benjamin K.); Besley, JC (Besley, John C.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The use and utility of science in society is often influenced by the structure, legitimacy, and efficacy of the scientific research process. Public participation in scientific research (PPSR) is a growing field of practice aimed at enhancing both public knowledge and understanding of science (education outreach) and the efficacy and responsiveness of scientific research, practice, and policy (participatory engagement). However, PPSR objectives focused on education outreach and participatory engagement have each emerged from diverse theoretical traditions that maintain distinct indicators of success used for program development and evaluation. Although areas of intersection and overlap among these two traditions exist in theory and practice, a set of comprehensive standards has yet to coalesce that supports the key principles of both traditions in an assimilated fashion. To fill this void, a comprehensive indicators framework is proposed with the goal of promoting a more integrative and synergistic PPSR program development and assessment process.']
[u'PUBLIC PARTICIPATION IN REGULATORY DECISION-MAKING Cases from Regulations.gov', u'Bryer, TA (Bryer, Thomas A.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Regulations.gov is an award-winning government Web site that has democratized the federal rulemaking process by making it easier for citizens to search, read, and comment on proposed rules. Comments citizens have submitted in relation to three proposals are analyzed. The issues in each case are classified as low salience/high complexity, high salience/high complexity, and high salience/low complexity, respectively. Qualitative analysis of the comments across cases finds that they tend to be emotional, illogical, and lacking in credibility. It is suggested that if the costs of better preparing citizens to be effective participants in the regulatory decision-making process are not acceptable, the democratization experiment might best be terminated.']
[u'@INDIGENOUSX: A CASE STUDY OF COMMUNITY-LED INNOVATION IN DIGITAL MEDIA', u'Sweet, M (Sweet, Melissa); Pearson, L (Pearson, Luke); Dudgeon, P (Dudgeon, Pat)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The ever-increasing uses for social media and mobile technologies are bringing new opportunities for innovation and participation across societies, while challenging and disrupting the status quo. Characteristics of the digital age include the proliferation of user-driven innovation and the blurring of boundaries and roles, whether between the producers and users of news and other products or services, or between sectors. The @IndigenousX Twitter account, which has a different Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander person tweeting each week, is an example of user-driven innovation and of how Indigenous voices are emerging strongly in the rapidly evolving digital landscape. Its founder, Luke Pearson, a teacher and Aboriginal education consultant, wanted to share the platform he had established on Twitter for storytelling to an engaged audience. The account can thus be seen as a form of citizen, participatory, community or alternative journalism. This article provides a preliminary analysis of @IndigenousX, and suggests that this account and the diversity of Indigenous voices in the digital environment offer opportunities for wide-ranging research endeavours. Initiatives like @IndigenousX are also a reminder that journalism has much to learn from innovation outside the conventional realm of journalistic practice.']
[u'A Framework for Operationalizing the Effect of National Culture on Participatory Policy Analysis', u'Maleki, A (Maleki, Ammar); Bots, PWG (Bots, Pieter W. G.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Participatory policy analysis (PPA) aims to involve actors who affect, or are affected by, a decision in the policy-making process. Although the concept of public participation is attractive and promising, the possibility and quality of its application is sensitive to context, notably to cultural factors. Research on how to operationalize and manage this sensitivity while designing and implementing PPA is scant. This article aims to fill this gap by providing an analytic framework for assessing culturally sensitive factors affecting participation (FAPs) using cross-cultural theories. The framework is tested in secondary case studies in four countries with different cultural backgrounds. The results show good correspondence between the quantitative indicators in the framework and the empirical observations in the case studies. This suggests that the framework provides a valuable ex ante diagnostic tool for researchers and practitioners who wish to tailor a participatory approach to a cultural context.']
[u'"Some are More Open than Others": Comparing the Impact of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 on Local and Central Government in the UK', u'Worthy, B (Worthy, Ben)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article examines the impact of freedom of information (FOI) on English local government and compares it with UK central government. It asks whether FOI has increased transparency and accountability and improved decision-making, public understanding, participation or trust. It also looks at whether FOI has affected local leadership, service delivery and partnership work. FOI has not had a transformative impact on local government. Local authorities are more transparent, supported by new online disclosure reforms. FOI has also increased accountability but only increased public understanding in a small way. It has had no effect on decision-making except in particularly sensitive issues. It has not increased participation and has had no general impact upon trust. Core activities remain unaffected though private contractors' information and media use cause concern. The variable openness of institutions depends on context, culture and political leadership. The diversity is also driven by requesters' varying motivations."]
[u'The civility of social capital: Public relations in the public sphere, civil society, and democracy', u'Sommerfeldt, EJ (Sommerfeldt, Erich J.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Scholars have analyzed public relations\' role in democracy via proxy concepts like the public sphere and civil society. However, some have critiqued the public sphere on grounds of equal access and portrayed civil society as a guise for first-world imperialism. These critiques have implications for the role of public relations in the public sphere and civil society. This article suggests the normative role of public relations in democracy is best perceived as creating the social capital that facilitates access to spheres of public discussion and in maintaining relationships among those organizations that check state power. To that end, the paper argues that social capital does much to advance public relations theory and prescribe the role of public relations in democracy. Several implications for public relations from a social capital perspective are offered, including the creation of generalized societal trust, the building of cross-cutting or "weak" ties, the engagement of media on behalf of subaltern counterpublics, and the (re)creation of community or a fully functioning society. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.']
[u'Scientific citizenship in a democratic society', u'Arnason, V (Arnason, Vilhjalmur)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Using the example of the sociological analysis of biological citizenship and literacy, it is argued that a merely descriptive analysis of these phenomena does not capture their distinctive normative features. While such a description realistically demonstrates how citizens respond to and are shaped by biotechnology and biomedical discourse, it provides no critique of the forces moulding the citizen-consumer. Ideas of active citizenship fuel the search for forms of public engagement in the spirit of deliberative democracy. While these attempts are guided by an important vision of policy making in democratic society, they are beset with several practical difficulties. It is argued that the discussion of deliberative practices has focused too much on direct participation of citizens in various dialogical events and its impact on policy and decision making. This approach ignores other important aspects of deliberative democratic theory, emphasizing public accountability and trustworthiness of democratic institutions.']
[u'Relationships among affective factors and preferred engagement in science-related activities', u'Lin, HS (Lin, Huann-shyang); Lawrenz, F (Lawrenz, Frances); Lin, SF (Lin, Shu-Fen); Hong, ZR (Hong, Zuway-R.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study investigated how affective factors impact participation in science learning using structural equation modeling. Using a dataset from Taiwan, a model was obtained that showed the relationships among science-related interest, enjoyment, self-efficacy, self-concept, competency, leisure time engagement, and future interest in science. The paths relating to engagement and future interest were much stronger for interest and enjoyment than for self-efficacy and self-concept. There was no significant path between science competency and future science interest or engagement. The results suggest that the affective and cognitive pathways to scientific competency are divergent and that they might be differentially activated by different contexts and activities. This indicates that school science educators might wish to reconsider the merit of overemphasizing achievement in comparison to interest. Finally, the results suggest that the development of science competency per se may not be the best way to ensure public engagement and understanding of science.']
[u'Information beyond the forum: Motivations, strategies, and impacts of citizen participants seeking information during a consensus conference', u'Anderson, AA (Anderson, Ashley A.); Delborne, J (Delborne, Jason); Kleinman, DL (Kleinman, Daniel Lee)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"During traditional consensus conferences, organizers control the formal information available to participantsby compiling structured background materials and recruiting expert panelists. Less formally, however, participants are encouraged to bring their own experiences into the deliberations, and in doing so, they often seek outside information. We explore this heretofore understudied phenomenon of information seeking during a deliberative event: the U.S. National Citizens' Technology Forum (2008), which addressed the convergence of nanotechnology, biotechnology, information technology, and cognitive science on the potential development of human-enhancement technologies. Through interviews with participants and observation of in-person and online deliberations, we identify outside information-seeking strategies and motivations. Our study demonstrates that conceptualizing models of deliberation as standalone settings of communication exchange ignores the reality of the complex information environment from which deliberative participants draw when making sense of technical issues. Future citizen deliberations must incorporate outside information seeking in the design of the exercises."]
[u'Processes of Political Socialization: A Communication Mediation Approach to Youth Civic Engagement', u'Lee, NJ (Lee, Nam-Jin); Shah, DV (Shah, Dhavan V.); McLeod, JM (McLeod, Jack M.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'By analyzing data from a national panel survey of adolescents (ages 12-17) and their parents conducted around the 2008 general election, this study explores the varied roles communication plays in socializing youth into democratic citizenship. In particular, we propose and test a communication mediation model of youth socialization, in which interdependent communication processes located in the family, schools, media, and peer networks combine to cultivate communication competence, a set of basic communication skills and motives needed for active and informed participation in public life. Analysis of our panel data indicates that participation in deliberative classroom activities and democratic peer norms contribute to civic activism among youth. These peer and school influences, however, are found to be largely indirect, working through informational use of conventional and online news media, and expression and discussion of political ideas outside of classroom and family boundaries. In particular, our findings highlight strong online pathways to participation, centering on news consumption and political expression via digital media technologies, suggesting the key role of the Internet in this dynamic.']
[u'Promoting citizen participation in healthcare through PyDEsalud.com', u'Perestelo-Perez, L (Perestelo-Perez, Lilisbeth); Perez-Ramos, J (Perez-Ramos, Jeanette); Abt-Sacks, A (Abt-Sacks, Analia); Rivero-Santana, A (Rivero-Santana, Amado); Serrano-Aguilar, P (Serrano-Aguilar, Pedro)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This project supports the initiative promoted by the Spanish National Health System to provide informational materials, in printed or interactive format, to encourage public participation in decision making and healthcare. We present the newly created PyDEsalud.com, a web platform aimed at people with chronic diseases with a high socioeconomic impact, such as breast cancer, depression, and diabetes. This platform uses scientific methodology and contains three information service modules (Patients' experiences, Shared decision making, and Research needs), aimed at promoting health education for patients and families. (C) 2012 SESPAS. Published by Elsevier Espana, S.L. All rights reserved."]
[u'Coproduction of Government Services and the New Information Technology: Investigating the Distributional Biases', u'Clark, BY (Clark, Benjamin Y.); Brudney, JL (Brudney, Jeffrey L.); Jang, SG (Jang, Sung-Gheel)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article investigates how communications advances affect citizens' ability to participate in coproduction of government services. The authors analyze service requests made to the City of Boston during a one-year period from 2010 to 2011 and, using geospatial analysis and negative binomial regression, investigate possible disparities by race, education, and income in making service requests. The findings reveal little concern that 311 systems (nonemergency call centers) may benefit one racial group over another; however, there is some indication that Hispanics may use these systems less as requests move from call centers to the Internet and smartphones. Consistent with prior research, the findings show that poorer neighborhoods are less likely to take advantage of 311 service, with the notable exception of smartphone utilization. The implications for citizen participation in coproduction and bridging the digital divide are discussed."]
[u'Improving Legitimacy in Nanotechnology Policy Development Through Stakeholder and Community Engagement: Forging New Pathways', u'Russell, AW (Russell, A. Wendy)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This paper reports on a multistakeholder engagement process conducted in an Australian policy setting that led to a new community engagement framework: Science and Technology Engagement Pathways (STEP). I describe the process in the context of a lack of awareness, experience, and culture of deliberative public engagement in Australia, particularly in relation to decision making concerning science, technology, and innovation. Increasing cautiousness in government and industry approaches to nanotechnology development, in Australia and elsewhere, creates an imperative and an opening for improved stakeholder and community engagement to improve the legitimacy and sustainability of decisions. In this context, STEP may stimulate movement toward deliberative engagement by raising awareness and commitment from diverse stakeholders and providing a structure for developments in engagement and public dialog. STEP potentially provides rules of engagement and intervention pathways for ongoing public engagement with science and technology developments and for critical science in society perspectives to inform policy.']
[u'The World Bank Approach to Public Sector Management 2011-2020: lessons from the Malaysian experience', u'Xavier, JA (Xavier, John Antony)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Drawing upon the Malaysian experience as reflected in interviews with selected senior bureaucrats across the Malaysian public service in addition to the first-hand experience of the author in the reform effort, this commentary seeks to analyse the extent to which Malaysia's approach to public management reform resonates with the proposed approach of the World Bank. The World Bank Approach highlights the central importance of context in reform. Reforms that pre-specify their intended impact upon service delivery have a better chance of success as, among other things, they are better able to attract a disproportionate amount of resources and offer a platform for a blend of top-down and bottom-up approaches to reform where practitioners take heed of the collective wisdom by consulting all stakeholders, including the public. Notwithstanding, reforms on the back of best practices should not be discounted. Combined, these reforms, with the general purpose of enhancing government performance, do impact on service delivery. While a problem-oriented approach to reform is a prerequisite, Malaysia's experience indicates that it is the follow-through of the implementation effort that ultimately determines reform success."]
[u'Communicating Risks and Benefits About Ethically Controversial Topics: the Case of Induced Pluripotent Stem (iPS) Cells', u'Longstaff, H (Longstaff, Holly); McDonald, M (McDonald, Michael); Bailey, J (Bailey, Jennifer)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Many are supportive of approaches that incorporate lay citizens into policy making and risk management decisions. However, a great deal of learning must first take place about how citizen engagement for controversial topics is best accomplished. Online risk communication efforts are increasing in popularity but there is little empirical evidence accrued to demonstrate the effectiveness of such methods. The intention of our overall study is to create a powerful method for in-depth two-way communication with the public and expert communities about complex and sensitive issues at the heart of stem cell (SC) research. The fundamental objective is to raise awareness of SC science with lay citizens by fostering more holistic or "all things considered" ethical judgments. Our risk communication study demonstrates that lay citizens are both interested in, and capable of learning about, complex scientific issues provided the right tools are used to convey information and assess understanding. Our results show that it is worth the time and effort for SC researchers to continue posting podcasts and FAQ\'s about their work for non-expert communities to view. In addition, despite having increased our participants\' risk perceptions about induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cell research, almost all were very supportive of this type of research in Canada by the end of the survey. In other words, participants understood that this research did in fact pose some risks and learned a great deal about both the risks and benefits of iPS cell research, and still thought this research was worthwhile to pursue.']
[u'Guidelines for trust interface design for public engagement Web GIS', u'Skarlatidou, A (Skarlatidou, Artemis); Cheng, T (Cheng, Tao); Haklay, M (Haklay, Muki)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Attesting to the powerful capabilities and in technology trends, many scholars envisioned the consolidation of geographic information systems (GIS) into vital tools for disseminating spatial information. GIS are presently used to inform, advise and instruct users in several contexts and to further engage citizens in decision-making processes that can impact and sustain policy development. Interaction with these applications incorporates risk and uncertainty, which have been repeatedly identified as preconditions in nurturing trust perceptions and which instigate a user's decision to rely on a system and act on the provided information. Research studies consistently demonstrated that a trust-oriented interface design can facilitate the development of more trustworthy, mainly e-commerce, systems. Trust in the Web GIS context, despite its significance, has only relatively recently received some attention. A set of human-computer interaction (HCI) user-based studies revealed some Web GIS trustee attributes that influence non-experts' trust beliefs and found that when these are problematic or absent from interface design, users form irrational trust perceptions, which amplifies the risk and may impose dangers to the user. These Web GIS trustee attributes that influence non-experts' trust perceptions are formulated here into a set of trust guidelines. These are then evaluated using the PE-Nuclear tool, a Web GIS application, to inform the public about the site selection of a nuclear waste repository in the United Kingdom. Our preliminary results indicate that the proposed trust guidelines not only support the development of rational trust perceptions that protect non-experts from inappropriate use of Web GIS technology but also contribute towards improving interaction with such applications of public interest issue."]
[u'Performed and preferred participation in science and technology across Europe: Exploring an alternative idea of "democratic deficit"', u'Mejlgaard, N (Mejlgaard, Niels); Stares, S (Stares, Sally)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Republican ideals of active scientific citizenship and extensive use of deliberative, democratic decision making have come to dominate the public participation agenda, and academic analyses have focused on the deficit of public involvement vis-a-vis these normative ideals. In this paper we use latent class models to explore what Eurobarometer survey data can tell us about the ways in which people participate in tacit or in policy-active ways with developments in science and technology, but instead of focusing on the distance between observed participation and the dominant, normative ideal of participation, we examine the distance between what people do, and what they themselves think is appropriate in terms of involvement. The typology of citizens emerging from the analyses entails an entirely different diagnosis of democratic deficit, one that stresses imbalance between performed and preferred participation.']
[u'ACTIVATING ACTIVISTS: The links between political participation and digital political participation', u'Robles, JM (Manuel Robles, Jose); De Marco, S (De Marco, Stefano); Antino, M (Antino, Mirko)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Digital political participation is an emerging phenomenon that has attracted the attention of a great number of researchers. In most cases, digital political participation (DPP) has been treated as an independent variable in order to attempt to understand other phenomena such as, for instance, changes in offline political participation. However, empirical studies have failed to demonstrate this relationship. In this article, we try to revert this approach, as we attempt to analyse to what extent citizens' political activism can help us explain DPP in Spain. Through a factorial analysis, we organize into dimensions the different types of offline political practices and we use these dimensions as independent variables in a regression model where DPP is the dependent variable. The results obtained serve as a basis for discussing the politically innovative nature of DPP."]
[u'DEVELOPING POLITICAL CONVERSATIONS?: Social media and English local authorities', u'Ellison, N (Ellison, Nick); Hardey, M (Hardey, Michael)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This paper reports on a survey of social media use by English local authorities. The survey indicates that English local authorities currently do not engage with social media in any substantive manner. However, as the paper argues, this lack of attention to forms of communication afforded by Web 2.0 risks missing an important avenue of citizen engagement', understood neither in the relatively straightforward terms of one-way e-democracy', such as e-petitions, nor in the Habermasian sense of rational democratic deliberation, but the more flexible manner of open-ended conversations' about local political issues. As the paper makes clear, academic enquiry has largely neglected this apparently mundane use of social media - certainly as it relates to specifically political participation - so some interactive snapshots' of this embryonic form of political communication are examined as a way of providing prefigurative examples' of its potential. By way of conclusion, it is suggested that the development of civic or political conversations across local government chimes with the emergent liquid modern environment, supporting, but not replacing, the fixed', or at least less agile', institutions of representative democracy."]
[u'Science Centers and Public Participation: Methods, Strategies, and Barriers', u'Bandelli, A (Bandelli, Andrea); Konijn, EA (Konijn, Elly A.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Science centers and museums are currently experimenting to strengthen the participation of the public in two-way conversations between the public and the institution. Eventually, these activities will lead to a stronger role of the public in the decision-making process of the museum. We analyzed the current situation faced by science museums in Europe in light of the recent discourse on public engagement with science and identified the main barriers and obstacles that prevent actual decision making of the public within the institutions. Finally, we discuss suggestions for solutions.']
[u'Social networking sites and older users - a systematic review', u'Nef, T (Nef, Tobias); Ganea, RL (Ganea, Raluca L.); Muri, RM (Mueri, Rene M.); Mosimann, UP (Mosimann, Urs P.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Background: Social networking sites can be beneficial for senior citizens to promote social participation and to enhance intergenerational communication. Particularly for older adults with impaired mobility, social networking sites can help them to connect with family members and other active social networking users. The aim of this systematic review is to give an overview of existing scientific literature on social networking in older users.Methods: Computerized databases were searched and 105 articles were identified and screened using exclusion criteria. After exclusion of 87 articles, 18 articles were included, reviewed, classified, and the key findings were extracted. Common findings are identified and critically discussed and possible future research directions are outlined.Results: The main benefit of using social networking sites for older adults is to enter in an intergenerational communication with younger family members (children and grandchildren) that is appreciated by both sides. Identified barriers are privacy concerns, technical difficulties and the fact that current Web design does not take the needs of older users into account.Conclusions: Under the conditions that these problems are carefully addressed, social networking sites have the potential to support today's and tomorrow's communication between older and younger family members."]
[u'Preferences for Careers in Public Work: Examining the Government-Nonprofit Divide Among Undergraduates Through Public Service Motivation', u'Rose, RP (Rose, Roger P.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Public service motivation (PSM) research has demonstrated the association of PSM with interest in government and nonprofit careers. Perry's PSM instrument also sheds light upon a less studied aspect of career interest among college studentsthe perception that the nonprofit sector, and not government, provides the better outlet for altruistic values. The author argues that given the lack of confidence in government and negative perceptions toward government work, only the attraction to policy making dimension predicts interest in government careers. In contrast, commitment to public interest, compassion, and self-sacrifice should explain student interest in nonprofits as well as teachingboth fields of work students see as more directly helping and serving people. Analyses of data from an Internet-based survey of 529 upper-division students at two upper-Midwest universities confirm this divide between the rational and normative/affective dimensions of PSM and suggest that confidence in institutions should be incorporated in PSM research."]
[u'Be Berlin! Governing the City through Freedom', u'Lanz, S (Lanz, Stephan)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"In this article, I examine how contemporary Berlin is governed, with a particular focus on the production of urban space. My points of reference are the term government' (as employed by Foucault) and the field of governmentality studies (where it is applied empirically). Based on a critical discourse and dispositive analysis of the city's current urban development policy, I propose that urban governance in Berlin may be analysed through the lens of three central dispositives: the dispositive of governing through citizenship; the dispositive of the creative city; and the dispositive of the social city. I discuss the characteristics of these dispositives of urban governance, drawing on a number of examples taken from the discipline of urban space production in order to look specifically at the aims and objectives of governance, its subjects and the ways it manifests itself. In conclusion, I suggest that the new forms of governance based on empowerment and cooperation have by no means replaced disciplinary technologies of governance, but are rather embedded within them."]
[u'Does Online News Reading and Sharing Shape Perceptions of the Internet as a Place for Public Deliberations?', u'Kang, H (Kang, Hyunjin); Lee, JK (Lee, Jeong Kyu); You, KH (You, Kyung Han); Lee, S (Lee, Seoyeon)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"With the rapid development of interactive communication technology, the Internet is a major source of news and also plays an important role in connecting individual members of society. However, Internet users may have different perspectives on whether the Internet positively functions as a medium for public deliberation. Based on the assumption that being exposed to information on public affairs is a crucial step for one's civic engagement, this study explores how individuals' motives related to news consumption, elaborative online news reading, and online news sharing influence their perceptions of online deliberation using structural equation modeling method (N=998). The study finds significant relationships between news consumption motives and elaborative news reading and sharing behaviors, but only elaborative reading behavior had a significant effect on one's perceptions of online deliberation. The implications of these findings are discussed."]
[u'Policy pathways, policy networks, and citizen deliberation: Disseminating the results of World Wide Views on Global Warming in the USA', u'Delborne, J (Delborne, Jason); Schneider, J (Schneider, Jen); Bal, R (Bal, Ravtosh); Cozzens, S (Cozzens, Susan); Worthington, R (Worthington, Richard)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Leading a coalition spanning 38 countries, the Danish Board of Technology organized World Wide Views on Global Warming (WWViews) on September 26, 2009. WWViews represented a pioneering effort to hold simultaneous citizen deliberations focusing on questions of climate change policy addressed at the UN Climate Change Conference (COP15) in December 2009. Sponsors and organizers envisioned WWViews as a means to affect the COP15 negotiations, and the project included numerous strategies to influence policy-making. This paper examines the success of such strategies in the USA through the lens of 'policy pathways,' routes of influence to affect the behavior of policy-makers and policy-making bodies. Our analysis highlights the difficulty of connecting citizen deliberations to meaningful policy pathways, and the importance of recognizing and enlisting policy networks, which we define as the collection of relationships, nodes, or pre-existing organizational ties that can be mobilized in the service of agenda- or alternative-setting."]
[u'Influence of Social Media Use on Discussion Network Heterogeneity and Civic Engagement: The Moderating Role of Personality Traits', u'Kim, Y (Kim, Yonghwan); Hsu, SH (Hsu, Shih-Hsien); de Zuniga, HG (de Zuniga, Homero Gil)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Using original national survey data, we examine how social media use affects individuals' discussion network heterogeneity and their level of civic engagement. We also investigate the moderating role of personality traits (i.e., extraversion and openness to experiences) in this association. Results support the notion that use of social media contributes to heterogeneity of discussion networks and activities in civic life. More importantly, personality traits such as extraversion and openness to experiences were found to moderate the influence of social media on discussion network heterogeneity and civic participation, indicating that the contributing role of social media in increasing network heterogeneity and civic engagement is greater for introverted and less open individuals."]
[u'Reflexive Engagement? Actors, Learning, and Reflexivity in Public Dialogue on Science and Technology', u'Chilvers, J (Chilvers, Jason)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article contributes to a more reflexive mode of research on public engagement with science-related issues through presenting an in-depth qualitative study of the actors that mediate science-society interactions, their roles and relationships, and the nature of learning and reflexivity in relation to public dialogue. A mapping framework is developed to describe the roles and relations of actors mediating public dialogue on science and technology in Britain. Learning within public dialogue networks is shown to be instrumental only, crowding out potentials for reflexive and relational learning. This calls for renewed critical social science research alongside more deliberately reflexive learning relating to participatory governance of science and technology that is situated, interactive, public, and anticipatory.']
[u'Hearing and Talking to the Other Side: Antecedents of Cross-Cutting Exposure in Adolescents', u'Borah, P (Borah, Porismita); Edgerly, S (Edgerly, Stephanie); Vraga, EK (Vraga, Emily K.); Shah, DV (Shah, Dhavan V.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Although scholars have enthusiastically examined the outcomes of cross-cutting exposure, few studies have explored its antecedents. Moreover, most studies have attended to adults. But it is during adolescence and early adulthood that citizens are most likely to be socialized into valuing and engaging in heterogeneous discussion. The present study employs a panel survey of American adolescents, age 12 to 17, to examine the predictive power of home, school, and media use variables on two outcomes related to valuing and talking to the other side. Our findings demonstrate that adolescents' attitudes toward valuing cross-cutting exposure as well as indulging in heterogeneous talk are consistently predicted by concept-oriented home environment and school curriculum. Among the media variables, cable news negatively and newspaper and online news positively influenced our outcome variables. Implications are discussed."]
[u'EXPLAINING COMMUNICATION DISPLACEMENT AND LARGE-SCALE SOCIAL CHANGE IN CORE NETWORKS: A cross-national comparison of why bigger is not better and less can mean more', u'Hampton, KN (Hampton, Keith N.); Ling, R (Ling, Richard)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Decline in the size and diversity of American's core networks has been tied to the displacement of face-to-face interaction and to lower societal well-being. Comparing core networks in the United States, Norway, and Ukraine, we reject the conclusions that frequent in-person contact predicts individual well-being and that large/diverse networks predict broader societal well-being. Individuals of lower socioeconomic status (SES) and societies with lower levels of overall prosperity have higher rates of in-person contact. Internet use is associated with higher in-person contact for the socioeconomically advantaged but lower rates of in-person contact for the disadvantaged. In-person and ICT-based contact is generally associated with maintaining a larger network, but in societies of lower well-being frequent interaction impedes the ability to maintain a large network. In contrast to the positive relationship between individual SES and network size, societal prosperity has a negative relationship to network size. Findings are discussed in relation to social support, democratic engagement, and the digital divide."]
[u'Lessons Learned About Planning Forecasting, Participation, and Technology', u'Klosterman, RE (Klosterman, Richard E.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The author summarizes the most important lessons he has learned in more than 40years of studying planning from the perspectives of planning theory, planning methods, and computer applications in planning. He suggests that planner's traditional -professional roles, models, and methods often fail to adequately consider alternative futures and unnecessarily restrict meaningful public participation. He proposes that these problems can be overcome, but not easily, by adopting more community-centered -approaches of planning with the public and using simple, easy-to-use, and -understandable models and methods. The author recognizes that following his advice in practice raises many difficult questions that he cannot currently answer.Research support: None."]
[u'Blogger Engagement Ethics: Dialogic Civility in a Digital Era', u'Langett, J (Langett, Jeremy)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The role of social media as a vital component in an effective public relations plan has expanded strategic communication into digital space. Despite the rapid advancements of public relations opportunities within social media such as the blogosphere, guidelines for a prudent entry into this often personalized online territory are difficult to locate. This article extends beyond individual relationships characteristic of public relations practitioner-blogger discourse and promotes a dialogic approach to blogger outreach ethics. It ends with several recommendations for public relations practitioners seeking to facilitate dialogic civility within their own blogger engagement efforts.']
[u'AN URBAN ENCOUNTER: Realizing online connectedness through local urban play', u'Shklovski, I (Shklovski, Irina); Silva, ADE (de Souza e Silva, Adriana)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Computing research has long been interested in location-aware mobile games, such as hybrid reality games, location-based games and urban games. With an increasingly pervasive IT infrastructure and comparatively affordable mobile devices, such games are becoming part of everyday play around the world. A study of an urban night-game called Encounter widely played in the Former Soviet Union and the Russian-speaking Diaspora is presented. The ways in which IT enables a complex interaction between the local experience of play in the urban environment and the geographically distributed nature of the player community are considered. The findings illustrate how this form of location-aware mobile game-play pulled together local engagement and global player communities into socio-technical assemblages, showing the interplay between local attachments, distant connections and the location-based communication in daily experience. The most important outcome of these games then was not the direct individual engagement with the urban environment through technology or the collaboration with strangers in the course of play (although these were the necessary prerequisites), but the social relationships that, while gained in-game, could be leveraged for civic engagement, belonging and mutual support. While the local, physical experience of the everyday and the game was important, the connections to the distributed community resulted in expanded horizons and changed the nature of the local experience as players felt they could belong to something larger than the locales they physically inhabited.']
[u'Holistic health: Predicting our data future (from inter-operability among systems to co-operability among people)', u'Mori, AR (Mori, Angelo Rossi); Mazzeo, M (Mazzeo, Marta); Mercurio, G (Mercurio, Gregorio); Verbicaro, R (Verbicaro, Rita)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Data depend on processes; processes depend on organizational models; organizational models depend on regulations and policies. This position paper envisages the future data scenarios and the related research needs by addressing this whole logical chain.A \'smarter health and wellness future\' requires the proactive engagement of citizens and of their caregivers, and the cooperation of health professionals across care facilities, with intense usage of mobile communication and connected devices. This ecosystem of people and organizations is currently extremely fragmented. Technology offers the possibility to mediate among the different actors in order to build a functional care team around the specific needs of each individual, i.e. a \'virtual facility\'.However, this requires policies and regulations in every jurisdiction that motivate providers and their organizations to collaborate among themselves and with citizens according to explicit individual plans of care provision, to share their goals and negotiate their respective roles with respect to each citizen.Once a collaborative organizational context is established within integrated care models, policy makers could identify a critical mass of relevant shared processes and isolate a set of \'Attention Points\' with predictable actors, concerns, activities, and thus highly precise information needs. For each Attention Point, a template for a Context-Specific Profile of the patient could be produced, e. g. as an HL7-CDA schema that fully specifies the mandatory and optional (clinical) data useful to support the care processes and to manage governance indicators. In relation to these predictable Attention Points data sources can be aligned to achieve reasonable coherence and consistency. Attention to data quality can be improved in a context of systematic re-use of the same data by different actors in different contexts.From a collection of profiles it could be possible to set up the core of a multi-purpose "Policy-Oriented" Health Record (POHR), shared by the functional care team in the citizen\'s ecosystem. In fact, the shared management of selected clinical data should be no more based on the a posteriori extraction from the personal notes of each professional, but on the cooperative construction of a systemic resource, together with the administrative and organizational data, able to support the management of innovative, integrated care models.In addition, the policy-oriented focus on routine data within a set of predictable situations makes it possible to stratify an appropriate number of citizens into homogeneous classes and to produce timely indicators of processes and outcomes from routine data for governance purposes, e. g. to optimize the allocation of resources, to drive continuous education, or to promote epidemiological studies. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.']
[u"ICTs changing youths' political attitudes and behaviors in Bangladesh", u'Ullah, MS (Ullah, Mohammad Sahid)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article explains political activism among educated youths in Bangladesh and how information and communication technologies ( ICTs) change their political attitudes and behaviors. The findings identify motivations and psychological factors that affect patterns of new media use in political participation. Data from 23 interviewees, alongside those of 69 focus group participants, reveal that Bangladeshi youths increasingly favor forward-looking agendas by rejecting traditional ideology-based party politics. They have a passion for shaping their opinions through social networking instead of processions, party meetings, and political violence. This study finds that youth engagement through virtual communication has no direct impact on political decision-making but may play a pivotal role in some policy-making processes in Bangladesh.']
[u'Flanerie between Net and Place: Promises and Possibilities for Participation in Planning', u'Apostol, I (Apostol, Ileana); Antoniadis, P (Antoniadis, Panayotis); Banerjee, T (Banerjee, Tridib)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The information and communication technology (or ICT) revolution adds new possibilities for providing information about places and communities that may be used in planning processes. In this article we introduce the practice of flanerie in the physical and virtual space as a method to produce representative images of contemporary social life. We suggest how planning may be instrumental in shaping a public good alternative in this emerging hybrid social space, where the practice of flanerie can stimulate engagement in deliberative planning practices. Finally, we discuss some of the trade-offs and design choices for eliciting information from citizens about their localities to understand how future development may lead to qualitative changes in community life.']
[u'Assessing the Costs of Public Participation: A Case Study of Two Online Participation Mechanisms', u'Wang, XH (Wang, XiaoHu); Bryer, TA (Bryer, Thomas A.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'In 2009, the authors facilitated a citizen-participation process in a local community in Florida in the United States. Using an inductive content analysis across two online participation data sources, the study develops a set of testable propositions about cost functions of public participation. The study shows a nonlinear relationship between administrative costs and participation quantity. It also demonstrates no direct relationship between the costs and participation quality. Moreover, the cost functions vary in different participation mechanisms. These propositions provide a basis for future research to improve cost management in public participation.']
[u'Real Time Monitoring in Disasters', u'Scott, N (Scott, Nigel); Batchelor, S (Batchelor, Simon)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article discusses some of the opportunities emerging from the changing Information and Communication Technology (ICT) landscape for improving and enhancing agency response within the disaster cycle. There are constant calls for better coordination among agencies, of engaging with the community to improve resilience, of better governance, of community empowerment. Any action in a system affected by disaster will be guided by a complex mix of human response, socioeconomic context, political and power factors, and technology. The technology is only one component in a complex environment. Nevertheless, as this article outlines, recent shifts in the ICT landscape have not only created opportunities for more and timely data, they have opened the way for new ways of working. They have the potential to increase interagency cooperation, they have the potential to deliver community engagement, breaking free from extraction of information to a co-construction of data, and they even have the potential to empower citizens and to enable better governance.']
[u'Fan activism sustained and challenged: participatory culture in Chinese online translation communities', u'Zhang, WY (Zhang, Weiyu); Mao, CT (Mao, Chengting)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Henry Jenkins, in Convergence Culture, argues that [p]opular culture may be preparing the way for a more meaningful public culture. This article examines this argument in the context of online translation communities in China, which originated from fan groups interested in foreign comics, games, movies, and television dramas. Drawing on evidence collected through participant observation and 23 in-depth interviews, this article first reviews the historical development and the structural layout of such online translation communities. It then focuses on the motivations of their members to contribute to the translation tasks, which show that personal interests speak louder than collective goals. Finally, it analyzes how the collaboration structure, mindset of collaboration, skills, and sense of agency are transferred from translating entertainment content to civic education content (i.e. open courses). Participatory culture fostered through fan activities is found to be transferred into civic engagement; however, the transfer between fan activism and political participation is yet to be seen.']
[u'Everyday Racism and "My Tram Experience" : Emotion, Civic Performance and Learning on YouTube', u'Banaji, S (Banaji, Shakuntala)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Does the public expression and performance of shock, distress, anger, frustration and ideological disapproval of particular sorts of politics constitute a form of collective political expression from which individuals can learn about being citizens? When it comes to the expression of feelings of racial and other types of prejudice, has political correctness led to a deepening of entrenched racist beliefs with no channel for discussion? This article engages with such questions through a case study of YouTube responses to "My Tram Experience" a commuter-uploaded mobile-phone video of a racist diatribe on a tram in the UK. Using qualitative content analysis and thematic analysis, it describes how these performed, networked and distributed moments of citizen angst demonstrate a limited but interesting range of civic engagements with and positionings towards racism, immigration, class and nationalism. For one reason or another these are not allowed to occur in other public for a such as the mainstream media or schools. The article argues that these vlogs are both a wide-ranging potentially therapeutic resource for those needing validation for their racist or anti-racist views, or for those who wish to express and garner solidarity for discomfort and pain caused by racism; they are also a significant though currently uncurated resource for citizenship education both formal and informal because of their engagements with technology, social context, emotional context and political rhetoric.']
[u"POST-PANOPTIC SURVEILLANCE THROUGH HEALTHCARE RATING SITES Who's watching whom?", u'Adams, S (Adams, Samantha)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article examines websites where patients rate and evaluate healthcare services as mechanisms for transforming citizens into surveillers of public services in order to generate knowledge about the everyday performance of professionals and institutions. Using post-panoptic theories about the use of information and communication technologies in daily life, it questions how such sites, and the knowledge they generate, relate to existing surveillance structures. It begins with a review of current surveillance literature before turning to the empirical case of the Dutch website Zoekdokter. It situates the site in its specific national health and policy context, which enables not only an analysis of the site, but also the existing rules, norms and structures for monitoring performance and the dynamic between multiple types of surveillance that occur simultaneously in practice. Zoekdokter.nl is one of six cases in this research project and is the only case where patients are encouraged to evaluate individual professionals identified by name and location. I analyze website texts and 15 stakeholder interviews using the post-panoptic concepts of sousveillance, coveillance and infoveillance. In the discussion, I use the case to reflect on several assumptions made in current post-panoptic theory and, more specifically, on the transferability of these ideas to specific sectors, such as healthcare.']
[u'Citizen Participation, Open Innovation, and Crowdsourcing: Challenges and Opportunities for Planning', u'Seltzer, E (Seltzer, Ethan); Mahmoudi, D (Mahmoudi, Dillon)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Open innovation, taken from the fields of business strategy and technology development, can offer planners fresh insights into their own practice. Open innovation, like citizen participation, goes outside the boundaries of the organization to find solutions to problems and to hand ideas off to partners. A key technique for open innovation is "crowdsourcing," issuing a challenge to a large and diverse group in hopes of arriving at new solutions more robust than those found inside the organization. The differences between citizen participation and Internet-based crowdsourcing are discussed. Crowdsourcing case studies are provided as a means for extending an emerging literature.']
[u'From echo chamber to persuasive device? Rethinking the role of the Internet in campaigns', u'Vaccari, C (Vaccari, Cristian)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Most of the e-campaigning literature claims that the Internet can reinforce political attitudes, but not change them. In this article, I analyze the issue through the receive-accept-sample (RAS) theory, which postulates that messages can change attitudes if they are both received and accepted by audiences. Based on qualitative elite interviews with 31 consultants and operatives involved in the 2008 United States presidential election, I argue that campaigns are finding new avenues to improve both reception and acceptance of their messages, and the implications merit close empirical scrutiny. The probability of message reception can be increased by citizens' propensity to seek out issue positions online and by diffusion through low-threshold activities by supporters; the probability of message acceptance can be augmented by video and the targeting of content; finally, indirect persuasion through interpersonal communication can increase the probability of both reception and acceptance."]
[u'Web 2.0 Tools for Public Participation through Government Websites', u'Karkin, N (Karkin, Naci)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The unpredictable pace of the Internet continues to transform the relationship between the government and the citizen into a novel type of interaction. In this type of interaction government agencies are supposed to drive the interaction level up to more participative services. Web 2.0 tools may serve for such a purpose, also serving for the enlargement of e-service provision with public participation. So, Web 2.0 tools may be regarded as a catalyst for citizens to get informed and provide input for public policy making. This paper deploys an empirical study for presence and functionality of Web 2.0 tools via Turkish government websites as a mechanism for citizen participation in a fast developing country case. The methodology of study covers a visual analysis of Web 2.0 contents in government websites. The analysis shows that since government websites are internally driven, they lack most of Web 2.0 tools. Besides, government websites are far from presenting a convenient context where citizens could participate in public policy formation by having opportunities offered by Web 2.0 tools.']
[u'Performative participation - a new cooperative planning instrument for urban public spaces', u'Mackrodt, U (Mackrodt, Ulrike); Helbrecht, I (Helbrecht, Ilse)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Civic participation is a central and strategic moment in urban planning processes. Especially for planning public spaces it is regarded vital that the urban dwellers' interests as future users of the sites - are respected and considered. The article identifies a new type of civic participation that is currently in the making: performative participatory approaches. This particular participatory approach is characterized, firstly, by its use of performative and material practices, hence by its action-oriented approach. Secondly, it is characterized by its very location on the sites of planning grounds within urban public spaces. Participation, hence, is no longer limited to a communicative exchange on and deliberation of future uses of urban spaces, carried out amongst different stakeholders in meeting rooms at local community centers or planning agencies. Rather, participation is executed as an immediate physical influence and shaping of public spaces through tangible on-site interventions led by local citizens or planning experts. Despite the increasing use of this participatory approach, however, the theoretical implications of this new planning phenomenon have rarely been discussed in planning theory. Therefore, in this article, we aim at developing a theoretical understanding of this phenomenon by introducing the term 'performative participation'. Drawing on performance theory, this perspective allows for a thorough investigation of the enacting qualities of participatory interventions on the stage of urban public spaces. Subsequently, we offer a classification of this new mode of participation deploying recent empirical examples. Finally we discuss the advantages, limitations and possible applications of this participatory approach."]
[u'The Emergent Discipline of Health Web Science', u'Luciano, JS (Luciano, Joanne S.); Cumming, GP (Cumming, Grant P.); Wilkinson, MD (Wilkinson, Mark D.); Kahana, E (Kahana, Eva)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The transformative power of the Internet on all aspects of daily life, including health care, has been widely recognized both in the scientific literature and in public discourse. Viewed through the various lenses of diverse academic disciplines, these transformations reveal opportunities realized, the promise of future advances, and even potential problems created by the penetration of the World Wide Web for both individuals and for society at large. Discussions about the clinical and health research implications of the widespread adoption of information technologies, including the Internet, have been subsumed under the disciplinary label of Medicine 2.0. More recently, however, multi-disciplinary research has emerged that is focused on the achievement and promise of the Web itself, as it relates to healthcare issues. In this paper, we explore and interrogate the contributions of the burgeoning field of Web Science in relation to health maintenance, health care, and health policy. From this, we introduce Health Web Science as a subdiscipline of Web Science, distinct from but overlapping with Medicine 2.0. This paper builds on the presentations and subsequent interdisciplinary dialogue that developed among Web-oriented investigators present at the 2012 Medicine 2.0 Conference in Boston, Massachusetts.']
[u'My Care Pathways - Creating Open Innovation in Healthcare', u'Lundberg, N (Lundberg, Nina); Koch, S (Koch, Sabine); Hagglund, M (Hagglund, Maria); Bolin, P (Bolin, Peter); Davoody, N (Davoody, Nadia); Eltes, J (Eltes, Johan); Jarlman, O (Jarlman, Olof); Perlich, A (Perlich, Anja); Vimarlund, V (Vimarlund, Vivian); Winsnes, C (Winsnes, Casper)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'In this paper we describe initial results from the Swedish innovation project "My Care Pathways" which envisions enabling citizens to track their own health by providing them with online access to their historical, current and prospective future events. We describe an information infrastructure and its base services as well as the use of this solution as an open source platform for open innovation in healthcare. This will facilitate the development of end-user e-services for citizens. We have technically enabled the information infrastructure in close collaboration with decision makers in three Swedish health care regions, and system vendors as well as with National eHealth projects. Close collaboration between heterogeneous actors made implementation in real practice possible. However, a number of challenges, mainly related to legal and business issues, persist when implementing our results. Future work should therefore target the development of business models for sustainable provision of end-user e-services in a public health care system such as the Swedish one. Also, a legal analysis of the development of third party provider (non-healthcare based) personal health data e-services should be done.']
[u'An International Survey of the Public Engagement Practices of Health Technology Assessment Organizations', u'Whitty, JA (Whitty, Jennifer A.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Objectives: Many jurisdictions are moving toward greater public involvement in health technology assessment (HTA) processes. This study aims to provide a broad, cross-sectional indication of the extent and methods of public engagement in HTA, with a focus on which public are engaged, by what mechanisms, and the purpose of public engagement. Methods: An international Web-based survey of 217 organizations involved in HTA was undertaken. Contact e-mail addresses for targeted organizations were identified from the Internet. Results: Individuals from 39 (18%) of the contacted organizations completed a survey. The majority (67%) of responding HTA organizations undertake public engagement activities, predominantly involving lay representatives of organized groups (81%), and to a lesser extent individual patients/consumers (54%) or citizens/community members (54%). For organizations undertaking public engagement, mechanisms based on communication or consultation were the most common, although some organizations have used or intend to use participatory approaches, particularly the Citizens' Jury (8%) or Consensus Council (20%) methods. Respondents identified with a number of rationales and barriers for undertaking public engagement. Conclusions: This survey provides further insight into the public engagement approaches that are used by HTA organizations in practice. In particular, it suggests a limited adoption of participatory methods to date, and interest in the use of social media. Study findings require further confirmation, due to limitations related to survey response. There is considerable opportunity for further research into pragmatic, robust, and meaningful approaches to public engagement to strengthen HTA policy and decision-making frameworks. An agenda for future research evolving from the survey responses is proposed."]
[u'Online Participation in a Community Context: Civic Engagement and Connections to Local Communication Resources', u'Ognyanova, K (Ognyanova, Katherine); Chen, NTN (Chen, Nien-Tsu Nancy); Ball-Rokeach, S (Ball-Rokeach, Sandra); An, Z (An, Zheng); Son, M (Son, Minhee); Parks, M (Parks, Michael); Gerson, D (Gerson, Daniela)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article investigates community-oriented Internet participation and its association with traditional predictors of civic engagement. The analysis poses larger questions about the democratic potential of digital media in diverse communities. Taking a communication infrastructure approach, the study explores the relationship between online and off-line forms of local involvement. The analysis is based on data from a phone survey conducted in 2010 with the residents of a demographically diverse city in the United States. Structural equation modeling is used to evaluate the importance of local media consumption, organizational membership, and interpersonal discussion as drivers of online participation. Community-oriented Internet activities are found to promote off-line civic engagement and intergroup dialogue. A disconnect between online participants and traditional local media suggests a need to rethink the role of community news sources in the context of underserved multiethnic residential areas.']
[u'Expressive Versus Consumptive Blog Use: Implications for Interpersonal Discussion and Political Participation', u'de Zuniga, HG (de Zuniga, Homero Gil); Bachmann, I (Bachmann, Ingrid); Hsu, SH (Hsu, Shih-Hsien); Brundidge, J (Brundidge, Jennifer)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Research has established the positive relationship between news consumption, interpersonal discussion, and political participation. New insights within this framework have tested the positive effect of blog use in the political domain. Based on national survey data, this study proposes novel advances by distinguishing between a less involved blog use (consumptive), such as reading entries and comments, and a more active blog use (expressive), such as posting comments on other people's blogs and on one's own blog. Results indicate expressive blog use is directly related to political participation, online and offline, and interpersonal reasoning processes, including reasoning and disagreement, whereas consumptive blog use is not. Furthermore, the relationship between expressive blog use and participation is mediated by exposure to weak ties."]
[u'Designing Public Participation Processes', u'Bryson, JM (Bryson, John M.); Quick, KS (Quick, Kathryn S.); Slotterback, CS (Slotterback, Carissa Schively); Crosby, BC (Crosby, Barbara C.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The purpose of this Theory to Practice article is to present a systematic, cross-disciplinary, and accessible synthesis of relevant research and to off er explicit evidence-based design guidelines to help practitioners design better participation processes. From the research literature, the authors glean suggestions for iteratively creating, managing, and evaluating public participation activities. The article takes an evidence-based and design science approach, suggesting that effective public participation processes are grounded in analyzing the context closely, identifying the purposes of the participation effort, and iteratively designing and redesigning the process accordingly.']
[u'Focusing on the Reader: Engagement Trumps Satisfaction', u'Mersey, RD (Mersey, Rachel Davis); Malthouse, EC (Malthouse, Edward C.); Calder, BJ (Calder, Bobby J.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Satisfaction is commonly monitored by news organizations because it is an antecedent to readership. In fact, countless studies have shown the satisfaction-readership relationship to be true. Still, an essential question remains: Is satisfaction the only, or even the critical, thing to focus on with readership? This research indicates that the answer is no. Two other related constructs, reader experiences and engagement, affect reader behavior even more than does satisfaction. The discussion provides examples of how to increase engagement and calls for experimental research to understand how news organizations can positively affect engagement and thereby readership.']
[u'The application of information technology and environmental protection', u'Ivanovic, MD (Ivanovic, Mirjana Drenovak)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The Aarhus Convention became a part of the Serbian legal system through the adoption of the Law on Ratification of the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision Making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters in May 2009. Although the legislation in Serbia, prior to the ratification of the Aarhus Convention, pointed, to some extent, to the realization of ideas promoted by it, following the ratification, there was the formal possibility of the consistent application of rights stipulated by the Convention. This article analyses the role of information technology (IT) in providing public access to environmental information. There are three basic ways IT may be applied in environmental protection. First, through the use of IT for environmental matters, the public can be informed about the general condition of the environment. In the legal system of Serbia, the Agency for Environmental Protection is obliged to collect environmental information from local government and compile annual reports on the environment that should be presented on the Agency website. This article analyses the information systems of the Serbian Agency for Environmental Protection and the further possibilities of using these. Second, IT can be used as a way of regular communication between government and citizens. In accordance with the principle of transparency, government bodies are obliged to provide an adequate way for the public to have an insight into their work. In addition, the authorized person is responsible for the accuracy of this information and for providing public access within a reasonable timeframe. In this sense, the article analyses the legal framework of e-access to environmental information and the relevant practice of the Commissioner for Information of Public Importance and Personal Data Protection. Third, the application of IT in environmental matters can promote public participation in environmental decision-making. If there were a legal framework, the public would be able to participate in procedures, such as environmental impact assessments, by submitting their opinions as e-documents. This article points out the relations between the application of IT and the level of public awareness about the environment, and the impact these relations have on environmental protection.']
[u'Locating science in society across Europe: Clusters and consequences', u'Mejlgaard, N (Mejlgaard, Niels); Bloch, C (Bloch, Carter); Degn, L (Degn, Lise); Nielsen, MW (Nielsen, Mathias W.); Ravn, T (Ravn, Tine)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"In search of differences and similarities in relation to the role and location of science in European societies, we use empirical information from 37 countries as a platform for developing typologies concerning dimensions of science in society. These capture clusters of countries and reveal significant heterogeneity across Europe, providing a point of departure for international learning, while also demonstrating the challenges that the European institutions face in their promotion of a European Research Area, shared priorities and a common model of science in society. Combining national-level and individual-level data, we further show a connection between national differences and the public's satisfaction with their own role as participants in science and technology. In countries where science communication culture is weak, where science plays a minor role in policy-making, and where institutions and procedures for public involvement are weak, citizens are comparatively less contented with their own involvement in science and technology."]
[u'The Role of Leadership and Contextualization on Citizenship Behaviors in Distributed Teams: A Relational Capital Perspective', u'Sha, XQ (Sha, Xiqing); Chang, KT (Chang, Klarissa T.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Research problem: This study provides insights into the role that a leader plays in improving relational capital, thereby motivating team members' citizenship behaviors in distributed teams. We address the following research questions: (1) What is the role of inspirational leadership in cultivating relational capital (i.e., reciprocity and commitment) in distributed teams? (2) Are team members' citizenship behaviors (i.e., knowledge sharing and interpersonal helping) influenced by relational capital in distributed teams? (3) How does technology support for cognitive and affective contextualization facilitate leaders to improve organizational communication? Literature review: The purpose of the review was to provide a theoretical background for the variables in this study. Based on the relevant theories on relational capital, leadership, organizational citizenship behavior (OCB) and contextualization, this study reviewed how previous studies link these theories to one other, and proposed the positive relationship between leadership, relational capital and OCBs, as well as the moderating relationships of technology support for contextualization. Methodology: The researchers conducted a quantitative survey with 141 respondents in a major university in Asia. The subjects were part-time graduate students pursuing their master's degree. Researchers administrated a paper-based questionnaire along with a cover letter explaining the study's objectives. Responses indicating teams that were situated in only one location and their role as team leaders were removed from the analyses. Participation was completely voluntary. The researchers chose partial least squares to test the hypotheses since it has fewer restrictive assumptions and its ability for analyzing measurement and structural models. Results and discussion: This study highlights the importance of inspirational leaders in cultivating two kinds of relational capital, namely commitment and reciprocity. This study also explores the differential values of contextual information from the cognitive and affective dimensions. A key result is that the effect of inspirational leadership on reciprocity is strengthened when there is technology support for cognitive contextualization. At the same time, technology support for affective contextualization has a direct impact on commitment. These findings provide empirical support for affective and cognitive contextualization in distributed organizational communication, and suggest a way for distinguishing between reciprocity and commitment. This study concludes by illustrating the positive effects of commitment on citizenship behaviors, such as knowledge sharing and interpersonal helping. The implication of this study is that when teams are physically dispersed, there should be more emphasis on leadership with inspirational attributes to get their team members to perform beyond standard requirements. In addition, this study provides leaders and organizations with an opportunity to reflect on the appropriate technology that can be adopted to compensate for insufficient communication. The limitation of this study is that each respondent represents his/her working team. As a result, it may introduce bias to the findings. In addition, self-reported measures may also cause common method bias. Future research could consider the addition of objective measures and longitudinal work to reduce the possibility of common method bias, and investigate how work behaviors change over time."]
[u'E-Participation, Transparency, and Trust in Local Government', u'Kim, S (Kim, Soonhee); Lee, J (Lee, Jooho)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article examines the relationship between electronic participation (e-participation) and trust in local government by focusing on five dimensions of the e-participation process: (1) satisfaction with e-participation applications, (2) satisfaction with government responsiveness to e-participants, (3) e-participants' development through the participation, (4) perceived influence on decision making, and (5) assessment of government transparency. Using data from the 2009 E-Participation Survey in Seoul Metropolitan Government, this article finds that e-participants' satisfaction with e-participation applications is directly associated with their development and their assessment of government transparency. The findings reveal that e-participants' satisfaction with government responsiveness is positively associated with their perceptions of influencing government decision making. Furthermore, there is a positive association between e-participants' perception of influencing government decision making and their assessment of government transparency. Finally, the article finds that there is a positive association between e-participants' assessment of government transparency and their trust in the local government providing the e-participation program."]
[u'Evaluation of implementation of a healthy food and drink supply strategy throughout the whole school environment in Queensland state schools, Australia', u'Dick, M (Dick, M.); Lee, A (Lee, A.); Bright, M (Bright, M.); Turner, K (Turner, K.); Edwards, R (Edwards, R.); Dawson, J (Dawson, J.); Miller, J (Miller, J.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: This paper reports on the evaluation of the Smart Choices healthy food and drink supply strategy for Queensland schools (Smart Choices) implementation across the whole school environment in state government primary and secondary schools in Queensland, Australia.SUBJECTS/METHODS: Three concurrent surveys using different methods for each group of stakeholders that targeted all 1275 school Principals, all 1258 Parent and Citizens' Associations (P&Cs) and a random sample of 526 tuckshop convenors throughout Queensland. Nine hundred and seventy-three Principals, 598 P&Cs and 513 tuckshop convenors participated with response rates of 78%, 48% and 98%, respectively.RESULTS: Nearly all Principals (97%), P&Cs (99%) and tuckshop convenors (97%) reported that their school tuckshop had implemented Smart Choices. The majority of Principals and P&Cs reported implementation, respectively, in: school breakfast programs (98 and 92%); vending machine stock (94 and 83%); vending machine advertising (85 and 84%); school events (87 and 88%); school sporting events (81 and 80%); sponsorship and advertising (93 and 84%); fundraising events (80 and 84%); and sporting clubs (73 and 75%). Implementation in curriculum activities, classroom rewards and class parties was reported, respectively, by 97%, 86% and 75% of Principals. Respondents also reported very high levels of understanding of Smart Choices and engagement of the school community.CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrated that food supply interventions to promote nutrition across all domains of the school environment can be implemented successfully."]
[u'Research in e-Government in Emerging Economies: Evolution and Future Trends', u'Motta, PR (Roberto Motta, Paulo)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'E-Government is considered a relevant issue on political agendas that seek to transform and modernize public administration. This recent interest in e-Government has been reflected in the large amount of research studies and projects reported in diverse academic disciplines and journals, with various methodologies used by researchers.However, the vast majority of research has focused on developed countries, neglecting the analysis and evaluation of the development of e-Government in emerging economies. This article provides a starting point that can help public administrators and researchers to evaluate this research field, identifying the research topics, research methodologies used in the studies published in international journals, universities that published major contributions, as well as future research opportunities.For this purpose, we carried out a bibliometric study that analyzes international journals with higher impact (Journal Citation Reports) contained in the fields of Information Science and Library Science, and Public Administration. This review process included the analysis of the articles in 44 journals published between January 2000 and September 2010. This analysis aims to highlight potential opportunities for e-Government research on emerging economies, making a comparison with research conducted on developed countries, allowing us to indicate the way forward in advancing the implementation of e-Government, as believe that a thorough analysis of the past will enable us to prepare for the future.In this regard, studies on emerging economies emphasize the use of research methodologies in very early stage, mainly focused on determining the current state of the experiences and initiatives of e-Government, awareness of the role of new technologies to encourage citizen participation and improving the quality and accessibility of public services.The research should help public managers and policy makers in the plans for implementation of e-Government, making them understand that environmental factors influence the innovation of public administrations. To this end; policies should be analyzed making processes of e-Government in a complex political environment, getting to strengthen the connection between e-Government and the traditional concerns of public administration.']
[u'Participation In Biotechnology Policy Formulation: Disagreement And Potential For Agreement', u'Ozdemir, O (Ozdemir, Oguz)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The study was conducted based on the "Special Interest Area" section of TUBITAK project called "Consumers\' Knowledge Level and Training about the Genetically Modified Organisms". The study focuses on the gradual prevalence of scientific and technologic orientations in the political and social arenas and its negative consequences. Based on this, the study discusses democratization conditions and tools of science and technology design processes. At the end of the study, in light of the opinions and suggestions of state officials directly concerned with GMOs, representatives from food chains and NGOs about the production, use and consumption of GMOs, disagreement and potential for agreement for participation in biotechnology policies in Turkey is discussed.']
[u'Building a new media platform for local storytelling and civic engagement in ethnically diverse neighborhoods', u'Chen, NTN (Chen, Nien-Tsu N.); Dong, F (Dong, Fan); Ball-Rokeach, SJ (Ball-Rokeach, Sandra J.); Parks, M (Parks, Michael); Huang, J (Huang, Jin)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article describes a research-driven initiative to develop a hyper-local news website to promote civic engagement in an ethnically diverse neighborhood in Los Angeles County, California, United States. Utilizing Communication Infrastructure Theory's elucidation of the contribution of an integrated local storytelling network to civic engagement, multi-method research was conducted to identify gaps and opportunities in the extant storytelling network - comprising residents, local media and community organizations - that shape the study area's current engagement patterns. Empirical findings point to a web-based local storytelling platform as a promising mechanism for facilitating engagement and inter-group interaction. The implications of these findings for developing research-driven communication interventions to enhance civic engagement in other diverse neighborhoods are discussed."]
[u'Information, expression, participation: How involvement in user-generated content relates to democratic engagement among young people', u'Ostman, J (Ostman, Johan)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"A number of studies have linked citizens' involvement in user-generated content (UGC) on the internet to democratic engagement. Whereas previous research implies a view of UGC involvement as the processing of political information, this study conceptualizes and operationalizes UGC involvement in terms of a distinct audience experience based on expressivity, performance and collaboration. Analysis of survey data from Swedish adolescents in the 13-17 age range shows that UGC involvement predicts offline as well as online political participation. In contrast to informational media use, however, UGC involvement is negatively related to political knowledge. The findings are compatible with recent theories suggesting that the expressive, performative and collaborative features of UGC involvement can promote political participation. Implications of the findings for youth democratic engagement are discussed."]
[u'Welfare and technology in the network society-Concerns for the future of welfare', u'Shah, N (Shah, Nikhil)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The last decade of explosive innovation thanks to the growth of information and communication technologies (ICT) has left the public sector, and particularly the provision of welfare services, largely unchanged. Where socialising, commerce, information finding, entertainment and travel have all undergone profound structural transformations, the workings of government have not seen a similar shift. To be sure, the pace of decision-making has been sped up, as it has elsewhere, by Blackberries, and a small number of services are delivered online. But these services are still based around their offline equivalents, and usually aim simply at cutting the costs associated with their delivery by moving online. While this will continue to be a key motivation for the digitisation of government, other more fundamental developments are set to take place which will herald new online-only services, and which will encourage radical decentralisation of power.The first part of this paper will look at the private sector's experience over the past decade for clues as to why the public sector has moved relatively slowly, and likely directions of development in coming years. We will also here present evidence from our own forecasts of the likely narrowing of the digital divide. The next two sections will then deal with future developments in more detail, firstly looking at ICT's future role in welfare service delivery, and secondly at the ways in which it might be used for greater citizen engagement, and the reshaping of power structures that will result from this. The final section will examine some conflicts that arise from this reorientation away from the centre. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."]
[u'Political participation and web 2.0 in Europe: A case study of Facebook', u'Vesnic-Alujevic, L (Vesnic-Alujevic, Lucia)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The goal of this paper is to obtain the model for political participation on social network sites in Europe with a focus on European politics. We want to find out if and how European citizens are interested in using Facebook in political communication on the European level and if that can lead to more participation and more inclusion of citizens in the political processes on the EU level. We are interested in discovering more about the interconnection of political participation in the 'offline' world and the use of web 2.0 for political communication purposes. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."]
[u'Internet Voting and Political Participation: An Empirical Comparison of Technological and Political Factors', u'Carter, L (Carter, Lemuria); Belanger, F (Belanger, France)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'One emerging facet of e-government is Internet voting, or i-voting. I-voting refers to the secure transmission of a ballot via the Internet. This phenomenon has the potential to increase citizen participation in the democratic process. However, few studies have identified the unique characteristics that make i-voting an appealing option. In particular, there is a need for research that identifies the impacts of both technological and political factors on intentions to use an Internet voting system. In this study, we propose a model inclusive of technological, situational and political factors. To test the model we administer a survey to a diverse pool of citizens with regards to age, income, and education. Results indicate that relative advantage and trust of the Internet impact intentions to use Internet voting, while party mobilization and political interest impact propensity to vote. Further, it was found that perceived Internet accessibility impacts the perceived convenience of voting online, which in turn impacts the perceived relative advantage of online voting. Implications of these findings for research and practice are discussed. We conclude with recommendations for future research. As local and state governments begin to experiment with internet voting, now is the time to identify the Internet-specific characteristics that will attract non-voters and retain habitual voters.']
[u'Social Networks that Matter: Exploring the Role of Political Discussion for Online Political Participation', u'Valenzuela, S (Valenzuela, Sebastian); Kim, Y (Kim, Yonghwan); de Zuniga, HG (de Zuniga, Homero Gil)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'We examine the relationship between citizen-to-citizen discussions and online political participation considering various attributes of individuals\' social networks: Modality, discussants\' ties, diversity of opinions, and quality of argumentation. Using a national survey of U.S. residents we find that communication within networks is a significant predictor of web-based forms of political engagement, after controlling for offline participation, political orientations, news use, and socio-demographics. Consistent with the "strength of weak ties" argument, larger online networks and weak-tie discussion frequency are associated with online participation. While like-minded discussions are positively related to online participation, discussions with people who are not of like mind correlate negatively with it. Online network size and reasoning discussions were positively related to online participation, although these associations were rather weak compared to the role of other network characteristics.']
[u'Science, governance, and public participation: An analysis of decision making on genetic modification in Aotearoa/New Zealand', u'Kurian, P (Kurian, Priya); Wright, J (Wright, Jeanette)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The acceptance of public participation in science and technology governance in liberal democratic contexts is evident in the institutionalization of a variety of mechanisms for participation in recent decades. Yet questions remain about the extent to which institutions have actually transformed their policy practice to embrace democratic governance of techno-scientific decision making. A critical discourse analysis of the response to public participation by the Environmental Risk Management Authority (ERMA), the key decision-making body on genetic modification in Aotearoa/New Zealand, in a specific case demonstrates that ERMA systematically marginalized concerns raised by the public about risk management, ethics, and ecological, economic, and cultural issues in order to give primacy to a positivist, technological worldview. Such delegitimization of public perspectives pre-empts the possibility of the democratic governance of science.']
[u'Youth online activity and exposure to diverse perspectives', u'Kahne, J (Kahne, Joseph); Middaugh, E (Middaugh, Ellen); Lee, NJ (Lee, Nam-Jin); Feezell, JT (Feezell, Jessica T.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Some see the internet as a means of exposure to divergent perspectives, while others believe that it is likely to foster echo chambers. We agree that it is important to attend to these possibilities, but we find that this discussion is often framed inappropriately. Drawing on a unique panel survey of the online practices and civic and political engagement of youth (aged 16-21), we find that most youth do not report exposure to echo chambers or divergent perspectives. Rather, most report either being exposed to views that both align with and diverge from their own, or they report not interacting with others about their views on societal issues at all. We also find that particular forms of online participatory activity, digital media literacy activities, and political interest are related to increased reports of exposure to diverse perspectives.']
[u"Social Media Use for News and Individuals' Social Capital, Civic Engagement and Political Participation", u'de Zuniga, HG (de Zuniga, Homero Gil)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Recently, scholars tested how digital media use for informational purposes similarly contributes to foster democratic processes and the creation of social capital. Nevertheless, in the context of today's socially-networked-society and the rise of social media applications (i.e., Facebook) new perspectives need to be considered. Based on U.S. national data, results show that after controlling for demographic variables, traditional media use offline and online, political constructs (knowledge and efficacy), and frequency and size of political discussion networks, seeking information via social network sites is a positive and significant predictor of people's social capital and civic and political participatory behaviors, online and offline."]
[u'Political discussion, opinion leadership and trust', u'Campus, D (Campus, Donatella)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The recent developments in political communication, in particular the process of popularization of politics and the diffusion of Internet, are notably challenging the relationship between citizens and media. In this rapidly evolving context it is worth analysing the role of political discussion in personal networks and small groups. Also, very recent research has offered new evidence to the old thesis that, despite the massive presence of mass media, personal discussion shapes the formation of the political opinion. A particularly important aspect concerns the nature of opinion leadership: who are the new opinion leaders able to influence processes of interpersonal communication? This article reassesses such a theoretical framework by reviewing the state-of-the-art and providing a foundation for a debate on the themes of trust in information sources and the impact of opinion leaders.']
[u'Mobile communication and strong network ties: Shrinking or expanding spheres of public discourse?', u'Campbell, SW (Campbell, Scott W.); Kwak, N (Kwak, Nojin)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study tests theoretical propositions that intensive mobile communication in small networks of like-minded strong ties hinders open dialogue with others. Using multi-wave panel data from a representative sample of adults in the US, the study found that reported levels of open dialogue decreased slightly with mobile-mediated political discussion in small and like-minded strong-tie networks. Interestingly, a more pronounced positive effect was found for mobile-mediated discussion in larger networks of like-minded close ties. In this case, open dialogue was facilitated by mobile-mediated discussion, revealing potential for mobile communication among close personal ties to expand spheres of public discourse and deliberation. Theoretical implications and directions for future research are offered in the discussion.']
[u'Open government: connecting vision and voice', u'Meijer, AJ (Meijer, Albert J.); Curtin, D (Curtin, Deirdre); Hillebrandt, M (Hillebrandt, Maarten)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The term open government is often used to describe initiatives of putting government information on the Internet. This conceptualization is too restricted since open government is not only about openness in informational terms (vision) but also about openness in interactive terms (voice). On the basis of an analysis of 103 articles, this article provides insight into the concepts of openness, transparency and participation, their interactions, and the manner in which they have been discussed in the literature. This analysis shows the differences and similarities between economic, political science and legal perspectives on open government and argues that a multidisciplinary approach needs to be taken. The authors conclude that open government is much too important to leave it to the 'techies': scientists and practitioners with backgrounds in law, economics, political science and public administration should also get involved to build sound connections between vision and voice that facilitate active citizenship."]
[u'Meaningful words? Cancer screening communication in Italy', u'Cogo, C (Cogo, Carla); Petrella, M (Petrella, Marco)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Over the last ten years, Italian work groups of communication within The National Centre for Screening Monitoring have been working on various aspects of communication in screening: quality surveys, information materials, guidelines, websites, and training. This has been done taking into account that good quality information must be clear, accessible, up to date, evidence based, clear about its limitations and capable of indicating further sources of information. Whenever possible, information has been developed in collaboration with the target groups: citizens but also health professionals. However, if good quality information must be clear about benefits and harms, the communication of quantitative information is particularly complex in cancer screening. Moreover, receiving more information on risks and benefits does not seem to modify participation. In addition, more balanced information does not entail that a person will include it in the decision process. Throughout several focus groups, citizens have made it clear that the information received from the programmes was only a part of the decisional process in which other elements were just as, if not more, important: trust in doctors, family and friends, perception of health authority efficiency, personal experiences, inconsistencies in information or public disagreements with other credible sources. Such elements can be seen as an opportunity to strengthen partnerships with professional and advocacy groups and to cooperate more efficiently with media and specialists from different fields.']
[u"Citizens' participation in health: education and shared decision-making. SESPAS Report 2012", u'Ruiz-Azarola, A (Ruiz-Azarola, Ainhoa); Perestelo-Perez, L (Perestelo-Perez, Lilisbeth)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"In recent decades, citizen's participation has become increasingly important in the field of public health, with the new role of the patient as an active agent, manager and producer of his or her own health, and the paradigm of patient-centered care. These changes have represented some of the most important milestones in the continuous improvement of healthcare. The involvement of patients is a new way of understanding the relationship between patients, health professionals and health systems, not only in terms of knowledge management and patients' control of their own health, individually or collectively, but also in terms of the influence that patients may have in health policy planning. Increased life expectancy and the consequent rise in the prevalence of chronic diseases, which already account for 80% of primary care consultations, is one of the key factors changing the role of patients. The place traditionally occupied by professional consultations given any symptoms or signs of alarm is beginning to be occupied by self-care and information and health education resources within the reach of patients and citizens. Internet access is an inexhaustible source of health information resources aimed at patients and provides participation tools. Social networks are places to exchange information and practical advice among patients, families and health professionals. Patients may be experts in their own illnesses and may thus take a more active role in decisions about their health, such as in shared decision making, as part of initiatives, and as part of evaluation of public health activities and health services. (C) 2011 SESPAS. Published by Elsevier Espana, S.L. All rights reserved."]
[u'Perceptions of News Media, External Efficacy, and Public Affairs Apathy in Political Decision Making and Disaffection', u'Pinkleton, BE (Pinkleton, Bruce E.); Austin, EW (Austin, Erica Weintraub); Zhou, YS (Zhou, Yushu); Willoughby, JF (Willoughby, Jessica Fitts); Reiser, M (Reiser, Megan)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"A telephone survey of 416 randomly selected registered voters examined the distinctive contributions of cynicism and skepticism to citizens' media satisfaction, external political efficacy, and apathy. Results suggest that cynicism and skepticism reflect dissatisfaction with media coverage, but have opposite effects on external efficacy. Cynicism has no relationship with apathy, while skepticism decreases it. Satisfaction with news media increases efficacy and apathy. Although cynicism's relationship to efficacy is of concern, these findings undercut the argument frequently made that dissatisfaction with media coverage is responsible for cynicism and political apathy."]
[u'Building Urban Narratives: Collaborative Site-Seeing and Envisioning in the MR Tent', u'Wagner, I (Wagner, Ina)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The focus of this paper is on studying mixed teams of urban planners, citizens and other stakeholders co-constructing their vision for the future of a site. The MR Tent provides a very specific collaborative setting: an assembly of technologies brought outdoors onto the site of an urban project, which offers vistas onto the site as well as a multiplicity of representations of the site to work with, in different media and taken from different perspectives. The prime focus of this paper is on the complex narratives participants co-constructed in three participatory workshops, with the aim to understand how the core aspects of the MR Tent-spatiality, representation and haptic engagement-shape these narratives. Main findings of this research concern: how the design of the multi-layered space of the MR-Tent supports spatial story-telling; how the different representations of the site of an urban project offer the opportunity to choreograph a 'site-seeing' that helps participants understand the site and plan interventions; how the 'tangibles' in the MR-Tent encourage a different way of contributing to a shared project and 'building a vision'."]
[u"Exploring the strategy to improve senior citizens' participations on recreational sports", u'Chen, TH (Chen, Tinghao); Sun, KS (Sun, Kuo-Shun)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This paper presents a Genetic Algorithm (GA) based optimization model for repetitive projects when considering soft logics. There have been several models developed for Times-Cost Trade-Off optimization in repetitive projects and these models were set up to search for optimum output rate that yields the minimum total cost for each project. Previous researches are based on the assumption that work sequence cannot be changed for different work zones. In reality, work sequence between work zones are not fixed (actually, constantly adjusted) throughout the project. Instead, they are constantly changed to shorten the construction time and minimize the total cost. Scheduling with the non-fixed work sequences between work zones is known as the soft logic method. Considering the soft logic in repetitive projects, the proposed GA model aims to assist the project team to find the minimum overall cost subjecting to different output rates and logical sequences.Taiwan has become an aging society. The aged participants can gain physical and mental health and happiness from recreational sports. Therefore, it is important to encourage the senior citizens to engage in recreational sports. The research purpose is to investigate influential factors and relative weights of personal preference and external environment application with a hybrid MCDM (multiple criteria decision making) model combining DEMATEL (decision making trial and evaluation laboratory) with ANP (analytical network process) methods. This study aims to demonstrate how the application of the MCDM model can improve participation and find important factors that can enhance sports and leisure participation. It also chooses the best leisure sports and enhances the experiences of people involved in the coming years. With the determinate results, the dimension of "external environment" is the most important aspect to be improved. In the seven evaluated criteria, "psychology" and "entertainment" are the most important considerations of the recreational sports program to be planned, followed by physical condition. Among the recreational sports types in the dimension of senior citizens\' selection, the best is "fitness sports" which will enhance the recreational sports participation, followed by "recreational sports", "competition sports", and "family sports". Crown Copyright (C) 2011 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.']
[u'A Multi-Method Evaluation of Different Models of Structured Electronic Consultation on Government Policies', u'Loukis, E (Loukis, Euripidis); Wimmer, M (Wimmer, Maria)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article describes and evaluates two different models of structured electronic consultation, using multiple evaluation methods: discussion tree analysis, quantitative evaluation, and qualitative evaluation. The results indicate that structuring the electronic consultations leads to higher-quality focused debates, however, it can create participation difficulties and barriers to less-sophisticated and educated citizens, so it might result in reduced participation and exclusion of some groups. This can increase the "quality," but at the same time decrease the "quantity" of e-participation.']
[u'Selective Exposure to Cable News and Immigration in the U.S.: The Relationship Between FOX News, CNN, and Attitudes Toward Mexican Immigrants', u'de Zuniga, HG (de Zuniga, Homero Gil); Correa, T (Correa, Teresa); Valenzuela, S (Valenzuela, Sebastian)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"In the past 2 decades, cable television and the Internet have greatly increased the availability of media content. The phenomenon has reinvigorated a longstanding debate about the effects of this media landscape, as people selectively get exposed to specific content. Based on U.S. national survey data, this article advances research in this area by analyzing the interplay between individuals' ideological predispositions, their selective exposure to cable news, and the relationship between selective exposure and their attitudes toward an issue with key policy-making implications: Mexican immigration. Results indicate conservative Republicans are more likely to watch FOX News, which is associated with negative perceptions of Mexican immigrants and higher support for restrictive immigration policies. Findings also suggest that liberals who get exposed to FOX News also show less support for Mexican immigration."]
[u'Communication Mediation Model of Late-Night Comedy: The Mediating Role of Structural Features of Interpersonal Talk Between Comedy Viewing and Political Participation', u'Lee, H (Lee, Hoon)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study advances a communication mediation model of late-night comedy in an effort to understand the process wherein consuming satirical humor indirectly spurs political participation via the conduit of interpersonal talk about politics. The theoretical model was tested utilizing two different research designs. The findings from the experiment and the survey provide considerable support for the model, demonstrating that various structural features of interpersonal talk (e. g., discussion frequency, online interaction, and network size) positively mediate the association between late-night comedy viewing and political participation. Meanwhile, the assessments concerning the mediating role of heterogeneous discussion illustrate that late-night comedy can draw a higher level of political involvement from those who are highly educated. The present study urges the field to extend the scope of the communication mediation model by incorporating a greater number of media channels and more diverse aspects of interpersonal talk.']
[u'Visible Identities, Visual Rhetoric: The Self-Labeled Body as a Popular Platform for Political Persuasion', u'Penney, J (Penney, Joel)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study examines how political T-shirts-i.e., those featuring printed images, symbols, or words that make explicit reference to electoral politics-are used by their wearers as identity labels for the purpose of advancing persuasive messages in the public sphere. Drawing upon 28 in-depth interviews with wearers, I consider how making one\'s political identity publicly visible with legible markers is conceptualized as a rhetorical act with the potential to challenge public perceptions of who "the people" out there really are. The discussion poses larger questions about how the visual expression of identity endemic to a wide variety of popular culture-related practices may be used by citizens to gain an empowering sense of participation in the sphere of "mainstream" political communication.']
[u'Secretly Political: Civic Engagement in Online Publics in Kazakhstan', u'Shklovski, I (Shklovski, Irina); Valtysson, B (Valtysson, Bjarki)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The proliferation of networked forms of communication has captured the attention of media and scholars alike. We have never had quite as many resources for communication as we have today, and such communicative potential has implications for social change. In this article we consider public spheres that emerge through communication in the digital realm, paying attention to how networked publics operate within such spheres. We present results from a study of a popular local online discussion forum in Kazakhstan. Steeped in Habermass idea of the public sphere, this study focuses on cultural public spheres defined through engagement and participation of diverse publics. We consider a range of publics that might emerge, such as mundane-publics, issue-publics, and counter-publics and how these differ in their content and purpose. While the majority of work on networked publics has been situated in states with democratic forms of governance, we consider whether similar constructions are possible in an authoritarian state. We find that networked publics are not only present in an environment rife with online blocking and censorship, but take on a range of forms, generating participation that can at times result in substantial social change, despite the inability to hold open political discussions online.']
[u'Changing political communication in Germany: Findings from a longitudinal study on the influence of the internet on political information, discussion and the participation of citizens', u'Emmer, M (Emmer, Martin); Wolling, J (Wolling, Jens); Vowe, G (Vowe, Gerhard)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The internet has been discussed as a major agent of change for political communication and participation. One important dimension of possible effects is the influence of online communication on the participation habits of citizens. In this article, panel survey data from Germany that cover almost the first decade of this century are used in order to test causal hypotheses about this transformation process. The results highlight that new forms of political communication are mainly a complement to existing forms with few substitution effects. Additionally, the data demonstrate the strong role habitualization plays, particularly in the field of political information seeking and traditional forms of political discussion and participation, while online communication is still evolving with yet less fixed patterns of action.']
[u'REMEDIATING PRIOR TALK AND CONSTRUCTING PUBLIC DIALOGUE Newspaper coverage of political talk radio discussions in Hong Kong', u'Lee, FLF (Lee, Francis L. F.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Premised on the argument that a full understanding of the social significance of a medium should take into account whether and how other media platforms remediate the medium and its contents, this article examines how mainstream newspapers in Hong Kong selectively appropriate talk radio discourses and incorporate them into news texts. More specifically, drawing upon insights developed by research on reported speech and constructed dialogue, the analysis focuses on how newspapers of different political orientations represent, reconstruct, and organize the speeches of government officials attending radio shows, the citizen-callers, the hosts, and other news sources into social dialogues, and in the process having the newspapers' own voices layered onto the reported voices. The analysis contributes to our understanding of how remediation operates and illustrates the analysis of constructed dialogue as a distinctive way to examine and understand news discourses."]
[u'Energy Futures: Five Dilemmas of the Practice of Anticipatory Governance', u'Davies, SR (Davies, Sarah R.); Selin, C (Selin, Cynthia)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Public participation has become standard practice in both environmental communication and science and technology studies, with such engagement increasingly moving "upstream" to the early stages of technological development. One framework for these activities is anticipatory governance, in which foresight and public and stakeholder engagement are used to reflect on-and direct-the impacts of new technology. In this essay we draw on our experience of anticipatory governance, in the shape of the "NanoFutures" project on energy futures, to present a reflexive analysis of engagement and deliberation. We draw out five tensions of the practice of deliberation on energy technologies. Through tracing the lineages of these dilemmas, we discuss some of the implications of these tensions for the practice of civic engagement and deliberation in a set of questions for this community of practitioner-scholars.']
[u'The city of New Orleans blight fight: using GIS technology to integrate local knowledge', u'Thompson, MM (Thompson, Michelle M.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Planners have a unique ability to consume information and address both policy and practical issues on a variety of scales - from neighborhood to regional to international. The use of information technology, specifically geographic information systems, continues to expand the planners' toolkit. Applying these tools requires planners to go beyond synchronous inductive and deductive reasoning and move towards 'integrated thinking'. Spatial literacy allows citizen planners to question and advocate for public policies based upon community data that has not been readily available to decision makers in municipal government. This report identifies examples of how a public participation geographic information system (PPGIS) increases engagement of stakeholders through increased access to and integration of municipal data. Post Hurricane Katrina, the Beacon of Hope - University of New Orleans Community Recovery Project (BUCRP) led to a shift in citizen participation by a community-led PPGIS. The BUCRP follows standards and replicable training methods to improve accuracy and reliability of crowd sourcing data. The development of tools and traditions where community data complements municipal resources can be used in weak market cities and those urban areas devastated as a result of natural or man-made disasters."]
[u'WHAT PUBLIC SERVANTS REALLY THINK OF E-GOVERNMENT', u'Baldwin, JN (Baldwin, J. Norman); Gauld, R (Gauld, Robin); Goldfinch, S (Goldfinch, Shaun)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Drawing on 240 completed web surveys from six New Zealand core government agencies, and using qualitative and quantitative measures, we investigate public servants' views on three aspects of e-government, situated within an overarching rhetoric of 'transformation'. First, the degree to which e-government is supporting 'joined-up' government is assessed. Second, we canvas views as to what degree e-government measures are promoting new ways of working for public servants such as flexible work. Third, we seek public servant views on whether e-government measures are allowing greater 'e-participation' from the public. We find that public servants exhibit considerable nuance in their views on e-government, including some scepticism towards its role in increasing flexible work, in 'joining-up' government, and in increasing citizen participation in policy making. The vagueness of transformational rhetoric is highlighted. We suggest the more considered views of public servants on the costs, as well as the benefits, of e-government, provide a useful antidote to much heated rhetoric and 'dangerous enthusiasms' exhibited towards e-government across the world."]
[u'THE WEB IN AFRICAN COUNTRIES Exploring the possible influences of the Internet in the democratization processes', u'Salgado, S (Salgado, Susana)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article questions if, and how the Internet is being used as a tool of democratization in emergent democracies. Focusing on the Angolan and Mozambican cases, it examines the media's influence in democratization and the potential of the Internet. Some preliminary conclusions from media analysis and interviews show that, in spite of limited access, the Internet, through information websites, online newspapers, blogs, etc., is strengthening civil society in different situations: disseminating the other media contents, stimulating the presence of different actors in the public sphere and the creation of new independent media, promoting participation and discussion, and influencing journalists, who use the Internet to look for new approaches and opinions."]
[u'Participation, Citizenship, and Pirate Radio as Empowerment: The Case of Radio Dialogue in Zimbabwe', u'Moyo, L (Moyo, Last)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article critically discusses audience participation and civic engagement in Radio Dialogue as a pirate radio station. As an illegal broadcaster, the station innovatively combines the use of ward committees and digital media technologies such as the Internet and mobile phones to create a participatory culture that is potentially organic, bottom-up, and democratic. While the democratic potential of participation and the digital media in pirate radio are acknowledged, they are seen as very much socially and historically contingent. While participation and the digital media are sometimes erroneously seen as synonymous with deliberative public spheres, I argue that they can also be used to support and legitimize authoritarian cultures that are embedded in the everyday, non-institutionalized forms of power. Participation is not always positive, as it can be top-down, mediated, regulated, and therefore exclusive and undemocratic. It can serve as a regime of endorsement and disapproval for political, economic and cultural power. Digital media can also be reconstructed to support undemocratic cultures that are not only embedded in radio's organizational and institutional journalistic practices, but also in the power relations concealed by the rituals of how society communicates with itself. These norms ultimately determine whether it is the voices of men, women, youth, the poor, or the elite in the community that find expression through digital media."]
[u'Patient Empowerment in the Process of Sickness Certificates', u'Klein, GO (Klein, Gunnar O.); Andersson, K (Andersson, Kjell)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'A national patient portal for secure communication between the patients/ citizens and primary care (Mina vardkontakter) is available in Sweden. This system was used in a pilot project in the Stockholm County where patients were invited to prepare the visit to their physician for the discussion on the need for prolonged sickness leave by filling out a web based questionnaire on their current health status and working conditions. The opinions of the patients and their primary care physicians about the system were analyzed with positive feedback.']
[u'Open-access clinical trial registries: the Italian scenario', u'Mosconi, P (Mosconi, Paola); Roberto, A (Roberto, Anna)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Background: Citizens, patients and their representatives are increasingly insisting on working with health professionals to organize and discuss research protocols. The International Committee of Medical Journal Editors recommended setting up a public clinical trial registry where anyone can find key information about a trial. Around the world, governments have, in fact, now begun to legislate mandatory disclosure of all clinical trials. The aims of the present survey were to assess the availability of clinical trial registries for Italian citizens and to examine the transparency of the data items reported.Methods: The availability of open-access clinical trial registries was surveyed on a sample of 182 websites, including research institutes and centers of excellence (IRCCS-teaching hospitals), hospitals and associations. For each registry we downloaded a sample of two trials to assess the correspondence of the data items reported. Results from the Italian and international registries were compared.Results: Fifteen percent of the sample had an open-access registry of clinical trials. Comparison of the data items available, in terms of completeness and transparency, from institutional and international registries indicated wide variability.Conclusions: Italian citizens, patients and their associations have scant access to local registries of clinical trials, and international registries are generally more informative. On the European level, advocacy and lobby actions are needed among citizens and patients to boost the diffusion of open-access clinical trial registries without language barriers, thereby facilitating participation, access to information, and the coordination of clinical research.']
[u'VoiceYourView: anytime, anyplace, anywhere user participation', u'Woodcock, A (Woodcock, Andree); Frankova, K (Frankova, Katerina); Garton, L (Garton, Laurence)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Citizens are increasingly called upon to comment on issues that directly concern them. However, such consultations may be tokenistic [1] as they occur with limited respondents, or may be at a time, or in a format which is inconvenient to the user. To encourage wider participation, the VoiceYourView project (vYv) has developed a system allowing people to make comments in a manner, time and place convenient to them. A real world trial of the prototype system was conducted at Coventry University campus to explore issues related to the system's usability and usage, as a means of enabling campus users to comment on their environment. Members of the university population were invited to comment on the university estate using one of five technologies (e-mail, online form, iPhone app, SMS message, or electronic kiosk). Although the immediate application area in this case was the design of public spaces, the approach can be transferred to other domains and thus provide a new way of gathering user information. Submitted comments were automatically analysed in terms of theme, sentiment, location and actionability and displayed online in a 2D visualisation. It is argued that that online data collection (crowd sourcing and skimming social networks) may provide a rich source of information for future ergonomists."]
[u'Political Involvement in "Mobilized" Society: The Interactive Relationships Among Mobile Communication, Network Characteristics, and Political Participation', u'Campbell, SW (Campbell, Scott W.); Kwak, N (Kwak, Nojin)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"In recent years, mobile communication has emerged as a channel for political discourse among network ties. Although some celebrate new possibilities for political life, others are concerned that it can lead to network insularity and political detachment. This study examined how mobile-mediated discourse with strong ties interacts with characteristics of those ties to predict levels of political participation. Findings revealed that mobile-based discourse is positively associated with political participation, but that this relationship is moderated by the size and heterogeneity of one's network. Participation increases with use of the technology in large networks of like-minded individuals, but declines with use of the technology in homogeneous networks that are small. Implications and future research considerations are offered in the discussion."]
[u'Exploring public perspectives on e-health: findings from two citizen juries', u"King, G (King, Gerry); Heaney, DJ (Heaney, David J.); Boddy, D (Boddy, David); O'Donnell, CA (O'Donnell, Catherine A.); Clark, JS (Clark, Julia S.); Mair, FS (Mair, Frances S.)", 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Background Interest and investment in e-health continue to grow world-wide, but there remains relatively little engagement with the public on this subject, despite calls for more public involvement in health-care planning.Design This study used two modified citizen juries to explore barriers and facilitators to e-health implementation and the priorities for future e-health research from the perspective of health service users and lay representatives. Citizen juries bring together a group of people to deliberate over a specific issue. They are given information and invited to e-cross-examine witnesses during the process.Results Jurors were very keen for lay views to be included in e-health development and embraced the citizen jury approach. They agreed unanimously that e-health should be developed and thought it was in many ways inevitable. Although there was much enthusiasm for a health-care system which offered e-health as an option, there was as much concern about what it might mean for patients if implemented inappropriately. E-health was preferred as an enhancement rather than substitute for, existing services. Lack of universal access was seen as a potential barrier to implementation but problems such as lack of computer literacy were seen as a temporary issue. Participants emphasized that e-health research needed to demonstrate both clinical and economic benefits.Conclusion There was broad support from the citizen juries for the development of e-health, although participants stressed that e-health should enhance, rather than substitute, face-to-face services. Oneday citizen juries proved a practical method of public engagement on this subject.']
[u'Application of a Mild Traumatic Brain Injury Rehabilitation Program in a Virtual Realty Environment: A Case Study', u'Rabago, CA (Rabago, Christopher A.); Wilken, JM (Wilken, Jason M.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Background and Purpose: Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) can compromise reaction time, visual perception, memory, attention, balance, and gait. These deficits, especially if persistent, can restrict participation in daily activities and the resumption of personal and profession roles. The purpose of this case study is to describe an mTBI-specific clinical assessment and rehabilitation intervention administered in a virtual reality environment.Case Description: The case involved a 31-year-old male service member who had sustained an mTBI (concussion) during a recreational softball game 36 days prior to physical therapist evaluation. He had complaints of severe visual and physical motion intolerance. He demonstrated impaired static balance and was restricted from full military duty.Interventions: The assessment included measurements of postural and gait balance during cognitive, visual, and vestibular challenges within a Computer-Assisted Rehabilitation Environment. Phase 1 of the intervention consisted of clinical techniques (ie, optokinetic stimulation/habituation, visual/physical perturbations, and postural stability exercises) targeting specific impairments. Phase 2 training consisted of weapon handling and target recognition tasks to simulate the requirements of his military occupation.Outcomes: At the conclusion of 6 treatments, the patient demonstrated significant increases in postural and gait balance with a near complete resolution of all postconcussion symptoms. He successfully returned to full duty and training for combat deployment.Discussion: Service members and civilians exhibit similar impairments, limitations, and restrictions following mTBI. A rehabilitation program delivered in a virtual-reality environment can be structured to manage complex mTBI symptoms through the integration of multiple treatment modalities specific to a patient's personal and professional roles."]
[u"Beyond the Online/Offline Divide: How Youth's Online and Offline Civic Activities Converge", u'Hirzalla, F (Hirzalla, Fadi); van Zoonen, L (van Zoonen, Liesbet)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"In this article, the authors investigate whether and how young people combine online and offline civic activities in modes of participation. The authors discuss four participation modes in which online and offline activities may converge: Politics, Activism, Consumption, and Sharing. Applying confirmatory factor analysis to survey data about the civic participation among Dutch youth (aged 15-25 years; N = 808), the authors find that online and offline activities are combined in the Politics, Activism, and Sharing modes, and that these three modes correlate significantly with each other. Conversely, the Consumption mode can only be validated as a separate offline participation mode. The results confirm the conclusion of previous studies that youth's participation patterns are relatively dependent of mode, and add that their participation is concurrently relatively independent of place (offline vs. online)."]
[u'Public engagement coming of age: From theory to practice in STS encounters with nanotechnology', u'Delgado, A (Delgado, Ana); Kjolberg, KL (Kjolberg, Kamilla Lein); Wickson, F (Wickson, Fern)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'In this paper, we present a study of Science and Technology Studies (STS) perspectives on public engagement, specifically focusing on the gap between theory and practice. In aiming to develop a conceptual map of this gap, we identify five top topics of tension. These are related to the general questions of: "Why should we do public engagement?," "Who should be involved?," "How should it be organised?," "When should it be done?" and "Where should it be grounded?" We employ nanotechnology as a paradigmatic case to help us explore these tensions. In practice, the choices one makes in relation to one topic of tension may influence the choices available for others. Enhanced awareness of the presence of these tensions, as well as their interconnections, can help build reflexive capacity and make visible the various alternative routes available for STS practitioners working in the "age of engagement.".']
[u'Civic Engagement and Internet Use in Local Governance: Hierarchical Linear Models for Understanding the Role of Local Community Groups', u'Kim, BJ (Kim, B. Joon); Kavanaugh, AL (Kavanaugh, Andrea L.); Hult, KM (Hult, Karen M.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Civically and politically interested individuals often use the Internet to facilitate and augment their civic and political participation. At the local level, such people also use the Internet to communicate and share information with fellow members of the local community groups to which they belong. In doing so, local groups help to create awareness and draw citizens into public deliberation about local issues and concerns, not only offline (a role they have played for many years) but also online. This research examines the interplay of individual-level and local group-level factors through an analysis of household survey data from the town of Blacksburg, Virginia, and surrounding areas in 2005 and 2006. It seeks to reconcile different levels of analysis-individual and group levels-relating to the use and impact of the Internet on civic engagement. This study identifies the distinctive influences at both the individual level and the community group level by applying a multilevel statistical model (specifically, the hierarchical linear model). First, at the individual level of analysis, this study found that internal and external political efficacy and community collective efficacy were significant individual-level factors explaining the Internet use for civic and political purposes. Second, at the group level of analysis, community group Internet use-which includes listservs, discussion forums, and blogs, among other emerging Internet technologies-and group political discussion were revealed as key influences on citizens' perspectives on the helpfulness of the Internet for civic and political purposes. Finally, in multilevel analysis, when taking individual-level variables into account, the group-level variables (group Internet use and group political discussion and interests) are positively associated with the views of the helpfulness of the Internet in connecting with others in the community and becoming more involved in local issues."]
[u'Public Sphere 2.0? The Democratic Qualities of Citizen Debates in Online Newspapers', u'Ruiz, C (Ruiz, Carlos); Domingo, D (Domingo, David); Mico, JL (Lluis Mico, Josep); Diaz-Noci, J (Diaz-Noci, Javier); Meso, K (Meso, Koldo); Masip, P (Masip, Pere)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Comments in online news could be the contemporary enactment of the eighteenth-century cafes that founded public sphere. This article assesses to what extent do these forms of digital discussion fit in Habermas' principles for democratic debate, using his discursive ethics as a demanding normative benchmark. The sample of more than 15,000 comments was selected from the online versions of five national newspapers of record from different political and journalistic contexts: The Guardian (United Kingdom), Le Monde (France), The New York Times (United States), El Pais (Spain), and La Repubblica (Italy). The ethical guidelines and legal frameworks set up by the newspapers as well as their moderation strategies were considered to understand the different settings of the conversations. Two models of audience participation emerge from the analysis, one where communities of debate are formed based on mostly respectful discussions between diverse points of view and another of homogenous communities, in which expressing feelings about current events dominates the contributions and there is less of an argumentative debate."]
[u'Democratic theory and citizen participation: democracy models in the evaluation of public participation in science and technology', u'Biegelbauer, P (Biegelbauer, Peter); Hansen, J (Hansen, Janus)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"We argue that some of the controversies over the democratic merits of (participatory) technology assessment can be traced to conflicting assumptions about what constitutes a legitimate democratic procedure. We compare how two influential normative models of democracy 'representative' and 'direct' value public engagement processes according to different criteria. Criteria drawn from this analysis are used to compare a series of case studies on xenotransplantation policy-making. We show that the democratic merits of participatory technology assessments probably owe as much to the institutional context as to the precise evaluative criteria or procedural designs. This calls for a closer interaction between science and technology studies research on public engagement and comparative politics scholarship."]
[u'Assessing the impacts of citizen participation in science governance: exploring new roads in comparative analysis', u'Hansen, J (Hansen, Janus); Allansdottir, A (Allansdottir, Agnes)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'In this paper we explore new avenues of analysis on the thorny issue of the impact of participatory technology assessment (PTA). We apply qualitative comparative analysis to data abstracted from a series of detailed country case studies of policy-making on xenotransplantation to explore which factors are decisive for policy outcomes. Contrary to our expectations that PTAs would contribute to restrictive policy outcomes, we find that this is not the case and that a combination of politicisation and public vigilance is pivotal to explaining policy outcomes. Further, our analysis was symmetrical in attempting to account for both permissive and restrictive policies. We conclude that the paper makes both a substantial and a methodological contribution to the literature on public participation in technology assessment and policy-making.']
[u'Cultures, contexts and commitments in the governance of controversial technologies: US, UK and Canadian publics and xenotransplantation policy development', u'Einsiedel, EF (Einsiedel, Edna F.); Jones, M (Jones, Mavis); Brierley, M (Brierley, Meaghan)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"While there has been considerable interest in public participation in new and controversial technologies in the last two decades, less attention has been paid to how different 'publics' and 'participation' are constructed and defined in the context of policy development and the contingencies (historical, cultural, and situational) that can contextualize these processes. This study examines the development of xenotransplantation policy in the US, Canada and the UK in order to understand the emergence of different publics and versions of participation in the social appraisal of a controversial biomedical technology. By examining publics in invited arenas and those that operate in public spaces outside of these official rooms (paying special attention to animal rights and welfare groups), we suggest that a broader understanding can be gained of the nuances in policy trajectories. Contrasting experiences in three case countries with close cultural and historical traditions further elucidate the nature of the framing activities of policy-makers around public participation and the boundary work around different practices that emerged."]
[u'Time, timing and narrative at the interface between UK technoscience and policy', u'Beynon-Jones, SM (Beynon-Jones, Sian M.); Brown, N (Brown, Nik)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Questions of timing, phasing and sequence have been central to recent critiques of science policy-making, which have highlighted sustained disjunctures between the relevance and importance given to different stakeholders at different moments in the policy-making process. In this paper we expand upon this recent 'upstream/downstream' literature through a case study analysis of xenotransplantation (XTP), one of the defining controversies of 1990s UK biotechnology regulation. Drawing on insights from the sociology of expectations we trace the emergence of a UK policy narrative concerning the future of XTP and explore how the policy role became narrowly defined as a process of 'reflex regulation', based upon technologically determinist assumptions and producing extremely short-term decision-making. We draw attention to the concrete costs of this delineation of the policy role and reveal that it is neither inevitable or necessary, by considering contrasts between the policy temporalities of the UK, Canada and the Netherlands."]
[u'Civil Society and Online Political Discourse: The Network Structure of Unrestricted Discussions', u'Himelboim, I (Himelboim, Itai)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The goal of this study is to examine-theoretically and empirically-the implications of unrestricted, computer-mediated social interactions for civil society. Discussions of 207,419 participants in 35 newsgroups over 6 years are examined. Patterns of participation and attention attraction follow a power-law degree distribution-a highly skewed distribution-as is expected in large networks. Furthermore, analysis shows that these patterns are dependent on group size: The larger a group, the more skewed is its distribution. These patterns indicate hierarchical social structures that limit equality among participants and well-informed citizenry. The growth of discussions, which can empower civil society, is in fact making it more hierarchical.']
[u'"Oh Yes, Robots! People Like Robots; the Robot People Should do Something": Perspectives and Prospects in Public Engagement With Robotics', u'Wilkinson, C (Wilkinson, Clare); Bultitude, K (Bultitude, Karen); Dawson, E (Dawson, Emily)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Governmental and institutional policy making in a number of countries has embedded public engagement strategies as a primary channel to connect citizens with scientific and technological innovation. Robotics is emerging as a key site for such new technological activity and its applications are likely to be increasingly notable in our lives in coming years. Robotics researchers are investing considerable time and effort in "engaging" publics. Concentrating on the findings of 24 qualitative interviews with those actively organizing or engaging publics, across 11 public engagement activities focused on the robotics field within the United Kingdom, this article explores their conceptions of "public engagement" and its benefits and constraints. The results suggest that while the language of engagement has been embraced there remain practical, conceptual, and individual influences on the level of engagement which is experienced.']
[u'Subjectivity Through Self-Education: Media and the Multicultural Citizen at the National Museum of the American Indian', u'Brady, MJ (Brady, Miranda J.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article looks at the use of digital kiosks and multimedia and multisensory presentation within the Smithsonian Institution\'s National Museum of the American Indian (NMAI) in Washington, D. C., to denaturalize assumptions about visitor and audience subject formation. Museums like the NMAI include numerous media technologies including multimedia presentations and digital kiosks as they vie for the attention of museum visitors. Proponents of digital kiosks in public spaces argue that they promote active engagement among visitors by encouraging "free-choice" learning, a process through which users make decisions about the content reviewed. This article argues that "free-choice" learning makes several assumptions regarding subject formation and that these assumptions constrain understanding of how media technologies shape meaning making potential in indigenous museums. It suggests that the existence of digital kiosks and multimedia presentations indicates disparate assumptions about visitor subjectivity and that these media are integral to the "techniques of the self" performed by the museum visitor as a multicultural citizen.']
[u'A Communicative Approach to Social Capital', u'Rojas, H (Rojas, Hernando); Shah, DV (Shah, Dhavan V.); Friedland, LA (Friedland, Lewis A.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article advances a communicative approach to social capital that views communication as the fundamental source of societal integration. We contend that integration occurring at the system level via news consumption and at the individual level via interpersonal discussion is amplified through ties at the community level. This cross-level interaction is theorized to encourage civic engagement, writ large, above and beyond the influences of news, talk, or social ties. This perspective distinguishes between the extent of news use and political talk and the orientation toward news consumption and political conversation. We offer evidence that communication variables, specifically news attention and exposure along with conversational frequency and orientation toward conversational understanding, interact with associational membership and network size to foster engagement.']
[u"Participatory paternalism: citizens' conferences in Austrian technology governance", u'Degelsegger, A (Degelsegger, Alexander); Torgersen, H (Torgersen, Helge)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Citizens' conferences as a form of participatory technology assessment (pTA) are said to increase democratic legitimacy, take up lay knowledge and improve technological solutions. Today it is part of science and technology policy rhetoric and, sometimes, practice. We confront some elements of the scholarly discussion on pTA with policy-makers' understandings of the process in Austria. Here, participation is often framed as a form of public relations and a sensor for public sentiments rather than as a forum of multiple rationalities and co-development of policy projects. This understanding can be related to underlying conceptions of democracy and the public. We conclude that governance styles would have to change before pTA could become more than a laboratory experiment."]
[u'EDITED PARTICIPATION COMPARING EDITORIAL INFLUENCE ON TRADITIONAL AND PARTICIPATORY ONLINE NEWSPAPERS IN SWEDEN', u'Holt, K (Holt, Kristoffer); Karlsson, M (Karlsson, Michael)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Although participatory journalism involves publishing content created by users, editorial influence is an important aspect of participatory online media. Editors shape the conditions under which user generated content is produced, the context of publication and the perceived prominence of the content. It is still unclear how this influence manifests itself, and how it can be related to the discussion about participatory media's potential for revitalising democracy. In this paper, three online news media in Sweden are analysed comparatively: Sourze - the first Swedish participatory newspaper; Newsmill - a social media focusing on news and debate; and DN - the online version of the largest Swedish morning paper Dagens Nyheter. The question is how participation is affected by editorial influence. The findings suggest that participatory arenas are constrained by the logic of their context of production. People from different categories in society participate on different terms. Furthermore, editors influence the agenda by suggesting topics, and by rewarding articles that follow their suggestions. These findings do not challenge assumptions about participatory newspapers as more accessible channels for citizens and therefore interesting as possible means of allowing a more democratically involved citizenry, but it challenges assumptions about freedom from constraints related to traditional mass media, such as agenda setting, gate-keeping and media logic."]
[u'ALL THE NEWS YOU WANT TO HEAR THE IMPACT OF PARTISAN NEWS EXPOSURE ON POLITICAL PARTICIPATION', u'Dilliplane, S (Dilliplane, Susanna)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"In a news media environment characterized by abundant choice, it is becoming increasingly easy for Americans to choose news sources slanted toward their own political views rather than sources providing more diverse perspectives. This development poses a challenge to ideals of deliberative democracy if people who consume politically like-minded news disproportionately populate the electoral process, while those presumably reaping the benefits of exposure to more diverse views in the news (e.g., more informed, tolerant attitudes) withdraw from politics. Using panel data collected during the 2008 presidential campaign, this study investigates the proposition that exposure to news slanted toward one's own partisan views increases political participation, while exposure to news with the opposite partisan slant depresses participation. The results suggest that, while exposure to partisan news does not alter the strongly habitual decision to turn out, the hypothesized energizing and enervating effects of exposure do appear for other behavior during the campaign; the partisan hue of the news sources citizens choose to consume affects both when voters decide and their levels of participation over time."]
[u'Seeking More Information and Conversations: Influence of Competitive Frames and Motivated Processing', u'Borah, P (Borah, Porismita)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'A consistently growing body of research focuses on the concept of framing. The present study contributes to framing effects literature in three ways: the study examines frames in competitive environment, investigates the influence of motivated processing, and the effects on behavioral intentions of participants. The data were collected using an experiment embedded in a Web-based survey of participants employing the issue of civil liberties conflict. The study used a 2 (motivated processing) x 3 (framed conditions) between-subjects design. Findings show that in case of both the outcomes of behavioral intent, willingness to seek information and talk, motivated processing intensified framing effects and specifically so in the mixed frame condition.']
[u'The Mediating Path to a Stronger Citizenship: Online and Offline Networks, Weak Ties, and Civic Engagement', u'de Zuniga, HG (de Zuniga, Homero Gil); Valenzuela, S (Valenzuela, Sebastian)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Empirical studies of citizen communication networks and participation go as far back as the 1940s, with a bolder focus in political-not civic-activities. A consistent finding reveals that individuals with larger networks are more engaged than those with smaller networks. This article expands this line of work with a number of novel tests. First, it compares the predictive power of online versus offline network size on civic engagement. It then explores the role of strong-tie versus weak-tie discussion frequency and participatory behaviors. Finally, it examines the extent to which the contribution of network size, both online and offline, on civic engagement is mediated by discussion with weak ties. Using original survey data from a large national sample of U. S. adults, results indicate that (1) the relationships between online and offline network size and civic engagement are positive and fairly similar in strength, (2) weak-tie discussion is the strongest predictor of civic behaviors, (3) weak-tie discussion largely mediates the association between participation and network size online and offline, and (4) online networks entail greater exposure to weak ties than offline networks.']
[u'Virtual deliberation? Prospects and challenges for integrating the Internet in consensus conferences', u'Delborne, JA (Delborne, Jason A.); Anderson, AA (Anderson, Ashley A.); Kleinman, DL (Kleinman, Daniel Lee); Colin, M (Colin, Mathilde); Powell, M (Powell, Maria)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Consensus conferences have functioned well in small, relatively homogeneous countries such as Denmark. In the geographically sprawling and socially diverse United States, however, meaningful citizen deliberation and decision-making on science and technology depends upon the ability to bring more participants "into the room." The National Citizens\' Technology Forum, held in March 2008, responded to this need by integrating panels of citizens from multiple US cities in structured face-to-face and online deliberation. We analyze the success of this experiment by focusing on the experience of participants during the online deliberation component. We conclude with recommendations for future organizers of online deliberation, focusing on the benefits of combining synchronous and asynchronous engagement and improving facilitation practice and software capabilities.']
[u'Political consumerism, young citizens and the Internet', u'Ward, J (Ward, Janelle); de Vreese, C (de Vreese, Claes)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Evidence suggests that purchasing products for ethical or political reasons-also known as political consumerism-may be gaining in importance. With (young) people's declining voting rates and a general disinterest in political institutions, scholars and political elites alike are speculating on the evolution of citizenship. Research shows that citizens in countries like the UK see issue and life-style-based politics as increasingly relevant. These developments point to an interest in understanding political consumerism and its relationship to citizenship. Through analysis of a survey conducted among 1215 respondents in the UK, this article presents evidence in particular for youth's notable presence online and their affinity for a particular strain of political consumerism identified as socially conscious consumption. It explores the relationship between this consumption and online and offline political participation. It discusses the potential for political consumerism to play a larger role in traditional political realms and particularly through the utilization of technology."]
[u'News Effects on Bonding and Bridging Social Capital: An Empirical Study Relevant to Ethnicity in the United States', u'Beaudoin, CE (Beaudoin, Christopher E.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"In an effort to advance decades of mass communication research on social capital and related indicators of social ties and civic engagement, this study provides an empirical assessment of social capital's often discussed, but rarely tested, bonding and bridging dimensions. It examines how usage patterns of traditional news media (i.e., newspaper and TV news) and online news media (i.e., Internet news) are associated with bonding and bridging neighborliness, as defined by ethnicity. Analysis of data from a 2007 national survey demonstrates that traditional news media use-but not online news media use-is significantly associated with bonding neighborliness and bridging neighborliness. In addition, the relationship between traditional news media use and bonding neighborliness, as well as that between online news media use and bonding neighborliness, is more positive for Whites and Asians than for Blacks and Latinos. Results are discussed in terms of bonding and bridging social capital, ethnic media portrayals, and journalism and ethnicity in the United States."]
[u'Mobile Communication and Civil Society: Linking Patterns and Places of Use to Engagement with Others in Public', u'Campbell, SW (Campbell, Scott W.); Kwak, N (Kwak, Nojin)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study examined whether and how mobile communication influences the extent to which one engages with new people in public settings. Contrary to our expectation, general use of the technology in public did not detract from conversing with strangers. Shifting focus from where one uses the mobile phone to how it is used, we found that uses for coordination and news each lead to increased conversations with strangers in public settings, while relational use detracted from them. The findings also reveal an interactive effect such that those who use mobile technology for news and frequently use it in public were more likely to engage with strangers in public. The discussion offers interpretation of the findings and directions for future research.']
[u'Engaging citizens: The high cost of citizen participation in high technology', u'Kleinman, DL (Kleinman, Daniel Lee); Delborne, JA (Delborne, Jason A.); Anderson, AA (Anderson, Ashley A.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This paper contributes to ongoing discussions on democratic engagement through an exploration of citizen participation in two citizen consensus conferences on nanotechnology, one held in 2005 and the second in 2008. We analyze the factors that motivate citizens to participate formally in debates about emerging "high technologies" and consider demographic and related characteristics of the participants in these two consensus conferences and the reasons they provided for participating. We suggest that in an era in which the barriers to civic engagement-most especially time-are large for many citizens, significant incentives are likely to affect participation. These incentives may be internal (e. g. a personal interest in a topic or an investment in a policy outcome) or external (e. g. money). In this context, we critique the aim of recruiting "blank slate" participants for consensus conferences and other deliberative democratic forums.']
[u'Public Engagement for Informing Science and Technology Policy: What Do We Know, What Do We Need to Know, and How Will We Get There?', u'PytlikZillig, LM (PytlikZillig, Lisa M.); Tomkins, AJ (Tomkins, Alan J.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article examines social science relevant to public engagements and identifies the challenges to the goal of meaningful public input into science and technology policy. Specifically, when considering "which forms, features, and conditions of public engagement are optimal for what purposes, and why?" we find social science has not clarified matters. We offer a model to guide systematic research that defines and empirically connects variations in features and types of public engagement activities to specifically defined variations in effective processes and outcomes. The specification of models, as we have done, will guide policy makers, practitioners, and the public in determining what kinds of engagement techniques are optimal for what kinds of purposes. Our model is presented to start conversations and inspire research that in the future should help to ensure meaningful public participation that meets the promise of contributing thoughtful societal values and perspectives into governmental policies impacting science and technology research.']
[u'Augmented deliberation: Merging physical and virtual interaction to engage communities in urban planning', u'Gordon, E (Gordon, Eric); Manosevitch, E (Manosevitch, Edith)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The goal of this article is two-fold: to introduce the concept of augmented deliberation and to demonstrate its implementation in a pilot project. We look specifically at a project called Hub2. This community engagement project employed the online virtual world Second Life to augment community deliberation in the planning of a neighborhood park in Boston, Massachusetts. The local community was invited to gather in a physical space and a virtual space simultaneously, and a physical moderator and virtual designer orchestrated deliberation. This project demonstrates the design values central to augmented deliberation: (1) it is a multimedia group communication process which balances the specific affordances of digital technologies with the established qualities of face-to-face group deliberation; (2) it emphasizes the power of experience; and (3) it promotes sustainability and reproducibility through digital tracking. Augmented deliberation, when properly designed, provides a powerful mechanism to enable productive and meaningful public deliberation. The article concludes with directions for further research.']
[u'Enabling Crowd Participation in Governmental Decision-making', u'Garcia, ACB (Garcia, Ana Cristina B.); Vivacqua, AS (Vivacqua, Adriana S.); Tavares, TC (Tavares, Thiago C.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Democratic governments constantly need to make sense of their citizens' needs to make appropriate decisions that reflect the overall wishes and needs of the population. However, except for mandatory voting scenarios, a low rate of citizen participation in government decisions through democratic processes is an aspect that defies democracy itself. Brazil's participatory budget policy emphasizes people's direct guidance regarding certain budget allocations though group meetings. This paper presents mParticipation, an agent-based model for eliciting and answering citizen demands in a participatory government structure using mobile technology. A prototype system applied to the domain of public budget allocation domain demonstrates that it is feasible to provide effective computational support to participatory collective decision-making."]
[u'Mobile communication and public affairs engagement in Korea: an examination of non-linear relationships between mobile phone use and engagement across age groups', u'Kwak, N (Kwak, Nojin); Campbell, SW (Campbell, Scott W.); Choi, J (Choi, Junho); Bae, SY (Bae, Soo Young)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study examines the links between the use of mobile telephony and involvement in key areas of public life deemed important for a healthy society. We assess how three types of mobile phone uses (informational, relational, and social recreational) are related to two aspects of public affairs participation in South Korea (community engagement and political participation). Overall, findings in this study show significant roles of mobile phone use. For example, use of the mobile phone to seek out public affairs information and to discuss politics, i.e., informational use, was positively related to civic and political participation. Relational and social recreational use of the mobile phone was also found to have interesting and distinctive patterns of relationships with the criterion variables. Findings of this study mostly support the Mobile Reinforcement Hypothesis, which predicts that mobile communication primarily fuels trends already in place with the greatest benefits going to those who are already involved in public affairs, such as those who are older and with greater political interest. However, the observation of nonlinear relationships between mobile phone use and engagement dimensions along the age continuum strongly suggests that the political and civic role of mobile telephony is much more nuanced than previously assumed.']
[u'Informed citizen and empowered citizen in health: results from an European survey', u'Santana, S (Santana, Silvina); Lausen, B (Lausen, Berthold); Bujnowska-Fedak, M (Bujnowska-Fedak, Maria); Chronaki, CE (Chronaki, Catherine E.); Prokosch, HU (Prokosch, Hans-Ulrich); Wynn, R (Wynn, Rolf)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Background: The knowledge about the relationship between health-related activities on the Internet (i.e. informed citizens) and individuals' control over their own experiences of health or illness (i.e. empowered citizens) is valuable but scarce. In this paper, we investigate the correlation between four ways of using the Internet for information on health or illness and citizens attitudes and behaviours toward health professionals and health systems and establish the profile of empowered eHealth citizens in Europe.Methods: Data was collected during April and May 2007 (N = 7022), through computer-assisted telephone interviews (CATI). Respondents from Denmark, Germany, Greece, Latvia, Norway, Poland and Portugal participated in the survey. The profiles were generated using logistic regressions and are based on: a) socio-demographic and health information, b) the level of use of health-related online services, c) the level of use of the Internet to get health information to decide whether to consult a health professional, prepare for a medical appointment and assess its outcome, and d) the impact of online health information on citizens' attitudes and behavior towards health professionals and health systems.Results: Citizens using the Internet to decide whether to consult a health professional or to get a second opinion are likely to be frequent visitors of health sites, active participants of online health forums and recurrent buyers of medicines and other health related products online, while only infrequent epatients, visiting doctors they have never met face-to-face. Participation in online health communities seems to be related with more inquisitive and autonomous patients.Conclusions: The profiles of empowered eHealth citizens in Europe are situational and country dependent. The number of Europeans using the Internet to get health information to help them deal with a consultation is raising and having access to online health information seems to be associated with growing number of inquisitive and self-reliant patients. Doctors are increasingly likely to experience consultations with knowledgeable and empowered patients, who will challenge them in various ways."]
[u'Fostering neighborhood viscosity: does design matter?', u'Mason, S (Mason, Susan); Fredericksen, E (Fredericksen, Elizabeth)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Municipal governments often struggle with growth and infrastructure while trying to emphasize collaboration between citizens and administrators in developing and implementing public programming. Neotraditional or New Urban design advocates assert neighborhood design as a response to concerns that rapid community growth, sprawl, and the resulting social and political changes lead to deteriorating quality of life and democratic participation in communities. Advocates argue neighborhood design elements that increase pedestrian traffic and encourage social interaction may mitigate the effects of income disparity and citizen apathy. Results from this study - using geographic information systems technology along with demographic data, land use information, and neighborhood viscosity indicators - indicate traditional design elements do not necessarily associate with factors assumed to foster neighborhood viscosity such as more civic engagement.']
[u'E-DEMOCRACY WRIT SMALL The impact of the Internet on citizen access to local elected officials', u'Garrett, RK (Garrett, R. Kelly); Jensen, MJ (Jensen, Michael J.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article examines how elected officials' interactions with neighborhood groups, business interests, issue groups, and other stakeholders are shaped by their use of the Internet and by characteristics of local e-government infrastructure. The study utilizes data from a nationwide survey of local elected officials and from an analysis of corresponding local government websites. Results show that Internet use is associated with a significant increase in contact with stakeholders and with increasingly diverse types of communication partners, even after controlling for officials' general propensity to communicate. Both time spent on official duties and city size moderate the influence of Internet use. However, local government web sites do not appear to have a substantive influence on citizen's participation in policy making."]
[u'TALKING AMONG THEMSELVES Online youth civic communication in managed and autonomous environments', u'Freelon, DG (Freelon, Deen Goodwin)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The character of youth civic engagement on the internet has emerged as a productive topic of study in communication research. Concurrently, a number of recent studies of online forums have found that technological design features can powerfully influence both the form and content of civic discussion. The present study integrates these previously unacquainted literatures, contributing to each by comparing the user content of two online youth engagement forums: one of which tightly manages communication between participants and the other of which grants them far more expressive latitude. The results indicate that technical design matters: significantly more topics of a traditionally civic character were raised in the former than in the latter. Further, the expressive forum elicited twice the number of total posts than its counterpart, although the highly regulated forum attracted significantly more unique users. Notably, the populations posting in the two spaces were almost completely mutually exclusive, with the vast majority of users posting exclusively in one or the other. The implications of these findings are discussed in the context of youth civic forums and youth civic engagement more generally.']
[u'COMPARING BONDING AND BRIDGING TIES FOR DEMOCRATIC ENGAGEMENT Everyday use of communication technologies within social networks for civic and civil behaviors', u'Hampton, KN (Hampton, Keith N.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The structure of people's social networks predicts democratic engagement. However, the relative contribution of different types of social ties to civic and civil behaviors is unclear. This paper explores the role of core networks - bonding social capital - to the role of overall network diversity - bridging social capital - for participation in formal civic institutions and informal civil behaviors. Emphasis is placed on the possible role of heterogeneity within core networks - political disagreement and the presence of nonkin ties - and on frequency of interaction, in-person and mediated: mobile phone and the Internet. This study finds that overall network diversity is a more consistent and substantive predictor of civic and civil behaviors than the size or heterogeneity of the small number of ties that make up the core network of most people. The two dominant new media used to interact with core network members - email and mobile phones - are unrelated to any of the behaviors measured. Some other media - contact in-person, postal mail, texting, instant messaging, and social network services - have an inconsistent and modest relationship to civic and civil behaviors. Findings lead to speculation that political disagreement within core networks, typically associated with lower levels of political participation, has a spillover effect that results in other forms of democratic engagement. There is evidence of glocalization; contact with core ties using new media supports local civil and civic behaviors. Internet use largely supports democratic engagement through interaction with bridging, but not bonding ties."]
[u'THE PUBLIC SPHERE, SOCIAL NETWORKS AND PUBLIC SERVICE MEDIA', u'Iosifidis, P (Iosifidis, Petros)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The traditional Habermasian concept of the national public sphere created by the mass media of newspapers and television is said to have transformed to a multilayered sphere of online and social networks which are increasingly important in engaging and mobilizing citizenship and in shaping the discourse within which rational discussion takes place. This article argues that the democratizing and empowering functions of the Internet and the new social media is being exaggerated and represent technological optimism for a number of reasons: the open participation of the Internet can turn chaotic; there is a problem of inclusiveness; censorship might be an issue; the Internet has become a major arena for corporate activity; the Internet's content is highly partisan; and above all, extensive dialogue and critical discussion (the very essence of the public sphere) is often absent on the Net. The article argues that open-platform Public Service Media (PSM) are capable of developing more comprehensive and inclusive social frameworks than online providers. Despite the growing financial gulf between PSM and their commercial competitors, public institutions should be free to expand online and into different platforms. As trusted media brands, PSM contribute to the creation of an inclusive public sphere, enhanced civic engagement and informed citizenship."]
[u'New Media Practices in China: Youth Patterns, Processes, and Politics', u'Wallis, C (Wallis, Cara)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article examines the dynamics of new media in China with an emphasis on youth uses and practices. While much attention has been devoted to the government\'s regime of censorship and control, this review takes a cultural approach, drawing from a range of academic and popular sources to examine how various practices, discourses, relationships, and representations have been articulated to new media technologies in China. After providing background on China\'s demographic and telecommunications landscape, the discussion covers networked community and identity, gaming, networked public sphere and civic engagement, and new media prosumption. The review shows that diverse new media practices emerge in China within the tensions and contradictions of the government\'s desire to simultaneously expand new media technologies and control what are perceived as "harmful" influences. Within a highly commercialized and more liberalized sociocultural environment, new media technologies have opened up new spaces for multiple modes of expression, and as such, they are constitutive of complex processes of social change in China.']
[u'The Mediating Role of Knowledge and Efficacy in the Effects of Communication on Political Participation', u'Jung, N (Jung, Nakwon); Kim, Y (Kim, Yonghwan); de Zuniga, HG (de Zuniga, Homero Gil)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study explicates the indirect process through which news media use influences political participation. Specifically, it investigates the role of political knowledge and efficacy as mediators between communication and online/offline political participation within the framework of an O-S-R-O-R (Orientation-Stimulus-Reasoning-Orientation-Response) model of communication effects. Results from structural equation modeling analysis support the idea that political knowledge and efficacy function as significant mediators. In addition, results expound the increasing importance of the Internet in facilitating political participation. Implications of findings, limitations of this study, and suggestions for future research are discussed.']
[u'VOICE AND CHOICE IN HEALTH CARE IN ENGLAND: UNDERSTANDING CITIZEN RESPONSES TO DISSATISFACTION', u'Dowding, K (Dowding, Keith); John, P (John, Peter)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Using data from a five-year online survey the paper examines the effects of relative satisfaction with health services on individuals' voice-and-choice activity in the English public health care system. Voice is considered in three parts individual voice (complaints), collective voice voting and participation (collective action). Exercising choice is seen in terms of complete exit (not using health care), internal exit (choosing another public service provider) and private exit (using private health care). The interaction of satisfaction and forms of voice and choice are analysed over time. Both voice and choice are correlated with dissatisfaction with those who are unhappy with the NHS more likely to privately voice and to plan to take up private health care. Those unable to choose private provision are likely to use private voice. These factors are not affected by items associated with social capital indeed, being more trusting leads to lower voice activity."]
[u'Encountering "Difference\'\' in the Contemporary Public Sphere: The Contribution of the Internet to the Heterogeneity of Political Discussion Networks', u'Brundidge, J (Brundidge, Jennifer)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This study explores the intersection of media use, political discussion, and exposure to political difference through a focus on how Internet use might affect the overall heterogeneity of people's political discussion networks. Advanced and tested herein is the inadvertency thesis, which theorizes that limitations of selective exposure processes combined with weakened social boundaries found in the online environment suggest that people may be exposed to at least some additional political difference online, if only inadvertently. Hierarchical regression and mediation analyses confirm that online political discussion (directly) and online news (directly and indirectly) bear small yet significant relationships to the overall heterogeneity of political discussion networks, and that partisanship moderates the relationship between online political discussion and political discussion network heterogeneity."]
[u'Virtual Government-Citizen Relations: Informational, Transactional, or Collaborative?', u'Brainard, LA (Brainard, Lori A.); McNutt, JG (McNutt, John G.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Public administration theory and practice suggest that e-government, citizen participation, and government-citizen collaboration are contributing to a movement toward New Public Service-as opposed to Old Public Administration and New Public Management. We explore this by focusing on the relationship between the Washington, D. C., police and local residents via online discussion groups. We ask, How do police interact with citizens virtually? How are these interactions structured? and Are they informational, transactional, or collaborative? Using descriptive data and thread analysis, and drawing distinctions between districts, we conclude that the bulk of activity is informational, a fair amount of activity is transactional, and less activity is collaborative. Thus, the relationship most closely approximates Old Public Administration, rather than New Public Management or New Public Service. The evidence offers some cause for hope for the future of police-community relations in virtual space and ideas for future research.']
[u'Embryos, ethics and expertise: the emerging model of the research ethics regulator', u'Allyse, M (Allyse, Megan)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Embryonic stem cell research poses challenges for traditionally secular governing structures. An increasingly popular response has been to create research ethics regulators, bureaucratic agencies assigned to generate or enforce normative regulations surrounding the use of embryos in research. This paper examines three examples: Japan's Bioethics and Biosafety Office, the UK's Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority and the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine. It explores the structure and mandate of each agency, its definition and employment of ethico-technical expertise and the extent to which the relocation of normative decision-making from the political sphere and into the voluntary sphere has democratized decision-making about the use of emerging technologies. We conclude that the model of the research ethics regulator appears successful at ameliorating public conflict and channeling dissent but there is little evidence to suggest that a reliance on ethico-technical, lay expertise has resulted in the relief of traditional critiques of regulatory culture."]
[u"Young men's health promotion and new information communication technologies: illuminating the issues and research agendas", u'Robinson, M (Robinson, Mark); Robertson, S (Robertson, Steve)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The article examines the use of newer, interactive information and communication technologies (ICTs) in young men's health promotion (HP), drawing on gender theory, HP research and evidence on young men's Internet usage. The focus is on highlighting an agenda for research in terms of emerging issues. New forms of social media ICT (for example 'web 2'-based on-line social networking sites, micro-blogging services, i-phones and podcasts) have the potential to enable young men to engage with health information in new and interesting ways. Given concerns about young men's engagement with health services, innovative ICT formats, particularly using the Internet, have been tried. However, issues persist around surfing 'addiction', quality control and equal access. Approaches to HP using new ICTs offer distributed control over information content and quality and a lay social context for accessing information. Online communities can potentially legitimize young men's participation in discourses around health, and support sustained engagement. The article discusses how this could support young men to re-conceptualize healthy choices in the context of masculine imperatives and responsible citizenship if specific conditions are met (for trusting engagement) and risks addressed (such as commercial dis-information). The skill requirements for young men to engage effectively with new ICTs are explored, focusing on health literacy (HL). It is predicted that social marketing approaches to HP for young men will increasingly include new ICTs, making specific requirements for HL. These approaches may appeal narrowly to hegemonic masculinities or broadly to multiple masculinities, including those historically marginalized. Recommendations are made for future research."]
[u'Engaging Urban Youth through Technology: The Youth Neighborhood Mapping Initiative', u'Santo, CA (Santo, Charles A.); Ferguson, N (Ferguson, Nathan); Trippel, A (Trippel, Andrew)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Processes designed to capture youth perspectives and engage young people in community development decisions can improve planning outcomes, support the development of sustainable and family-friendly urban areas, and foster civic-minded future leaders. This article reflects on the Youth Neighborhood Mapping Initiative, a university-community partnership that sought to foster civic engagement among urban teens and help them voice their perspectives while providing training and exposure to careers in city planning and geographic information systems. Participants identified assets and liabilities in their neighborhoods and learned to use technology to tell their stories through maps, photography, and blogs.']
[u"A twenty-first century Citizens' POLIS: introducing a democratic experiment in electronic citizen participation in science and technology decision-making", u'Williams, SN (Williams, Simon N.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Related to ongoing debates concerning the future of "deliberative democracy" and "public sociology," this article introduces a new approach to citizen participation in science and technology decision-making. The Citizens\' POLIS ( Participatory On-Line Interactive System) is a multi-method, multi-stage, semi-structured, electronic public participation process. This pragmatic experiment is influenced by the philosophy of John Dewey and James Bohman, and sees the citizen as the primary democratic inquirer and the social scientist as the key organizer and creator of the " institutional space for deliberation." This article discusses the role of the social scientist in organizing an electronic participation experiment, one which seeks to reach a compromise between democratic legitimacy and political effectiveness. A recently completed pilot study on " Mobile Phones, Risk and Health" is used to illustrate the approach. In conclusion, the need for further empirical experimentation with this, and other processes for electronic citizen participation, is asserted.']
[u'Participation and competence as joint components in a cross-national analysis of scientific citizenship', u'Mejlgaard, N (Mejlgaard, Niels); Stares, S (Stares, Sally)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Recent years have witnessed a 'democratic turn' towards active citizen participation in science and technology. The emerging participatory approach has been framed as a critique of a reductionist, outdated 'deficit model' of citizen competence, literacy or understanding. Participatory modes of citizen involvement with science are presented as competing rather than complementary in offering a strategy for making science and technology accountable and open to society. We use latent class models to develop cross-national measures of competence and participation, and explore the relation between the two. We argue that the question of how to analyze and assess the role of citizens in knowledge societies should not be an either/or - participation or competence - but a matter of understanding the balance and interconnectedness of both. We suggest that the idea of a 'scientific citizenship' could be a useful integrative notion to bridge the divide between concerns about public participation and public competence."]
[u'Geospatial Cyberinfrastructure: Past, present and future', u'Yang, CW (Yang, Chaowei); Raskin, R (Raskin, Robert); Goodchild, M (Goodchild, Michael); Gahegan, M (Gahegan, Mark)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'A Cyberinfrastructure (CI) is a combination of data resources, network protocols, computing platforms, and computational services that brings people, information, and computational tools together to perform science or other data-rich applications in this information-driven world. Most science domains adopt intrinsic geospatial principles (such as spatial constraints in phenomena evolution) for large amounts of geospatial data processing (such as geospatial analysis, feature relationship calculations, geospatial modeling, geovisualization, and geospatial decision support). Geospatial CI (GCI) refers to Cl that utilizes geospatial principles and geospatial information to transform how research, development, and education are conducted within and across science domains (such as the environmental and Earth sciences). GCI is based on recent advancements in geographic information science, information technology, computer networks, sensor networks, Web computing, Cl, and e-research/e-science. This paper reviews the research, development, education, and other efforts that have contributed to building GCI in terms of its history, objectives, architecture, supporting technologies, functions, application communities, and future research directions. Similar to how GIS transformed the procedures for geospatial sciences, GCI provides significant improvements to how the sciences that need geospatial information will advance. The evolution of GCI will produce platforms for geospatial science domains and communities to better conduct research and development and to better collect data, access data, analyze data, model and simulate phenomena, visualize data and information, and produce knowledge. To achieve these transformative objectives, collaborative research and federated developments are needed for the following reasons: (1) to address social heterogeneity to identify geospatial problems encountered by relevant sciences and applications, (2) to analyze data for information flows and processing needed to solve the identified problems, (3) to utilize Semantic Web to support building knowledge and semantics into future GCI tools, (4) to develop geospatial middleware to provide functional and intermediate services and support service evolution for stakeholders, (5) to advance citizen-based sciences to reflect the fact that cyberspace is open to the public and citizen participation will be essential, (6) to advance GCI to geospatial cloud computing to implement the transparent and opaque platforms required for addressing fundamental science questions and application problems, and (7) to develop a research and development agenda that addresses these needs with good federation and collaboration across GCI communities, such as government agencies, non-government organizations, industries, academia, and the public. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.']
[u'" ... a certain amount of engineering involved": Constructing the public in participatory governance arrangements', u'Braun, K (Braun, Kathrin); Schultz, S (Schultz, Susanne)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This paper argues that it is time for public understanding of science to develop a critical inventory of the forms, formats and methods of public participation and their respective implications and ambiguities. It highlights the need for analysing not only the limitations and deficiencies of participatory arrangements but also their constructive dimension, in particular the construction of the subject of participation. Looking into participatory governance arrangements in the issue area of genetic testing in Germany and the UK the paper presents a typology of formats according to the way the respective public is constructed and identifies four major constructions of publics: the general public, the pure public, the affected public and the partisan public. Each of these enables certain speaking positions while foreclosing others. The study shows that the main purposes of participatory arrangements in this issue area are knowledge production and education rather than political deliberation and decision-making.']
[u'The public consultation to the UK Climate Change Act 2008: a critical analysis', u'Scheer, AM (Scheer, Adela Maciejewski); Hoppner, C (Hoeppner, Corina)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Despite their increasing use in the creation of environmental policy, the routine public consultations in the UK are little studied. The public consultation to the Climate Change Act 2008 was examined in order to identify the rationales which key actors such as government, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and individual citizens use to justify citizen participation in climate policy. The interactions between these rationales and the consultation design were also considered. Rationales for participation were based on Stirling's (2005) distinction between normative, instrumental and substantive rationales. It was found that the government's rationale for citizen participation was both normative and instrumental. Different NGOs justified it, to varying degrees, primarily in instrumental and normative terms, although there was also evidence for a substantive rationale. Most individual interviewees thought of their participation in normative terms, while also striving to make substantial contributions. However, many were also sceptical as to their potential influence and thus justified their engagement in instrumental terms. Consultation design mainly engaged those stakeholders already involved in the policy process, and substantive citizen participation largely required the help of NGOs. A closer match is needed between the government's normative rationale, citizen's substantive intent and the consultation design."]
[u'Getting Citizens Involved: How Controversial Policy Debates Stimulate Issue Participation during a Political Campaign', u'Becker, AB (Becker, Amy B.); Dalrymple, KE (Dalrymple, Kajsa E.); Brossard, D (Brossard, Dominique); Scheufele, DA (Scheufele, Dietram A.); Gunther, AC (Gunther, Albert C.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study tests the relative mobilizing effects of predispositional factors and attention to media content during a gubernatorial race that focused heavily on stem cell research as a salient campaign issue. Our analyses are based on a statewide telephone survey (N = 508 in June-July 2006) conducted prior to the midterm and gubernatorial elections in the U.S. State of Wisconsin. Results show that ideological predispositions and attention to both newspaper and online media best explain issue participation. In contrast with prior research, our findings show that religiosity did not influence issue participation on the stem cell controversy in Wisconsin. Implications of these findings and the importance of research on issue participation for the field of public opinion research and the future of political campaigns are discussed.']
[u'POLITICAL DISCUSSION AND NEWS USE IN THE CONTEMPORARY PUBLIC SPHERE: THE "ACCESSIBILITY" AND "TRAVERSABILITY" OF THE INTERNET', u'Brundidge, J (Brundidge, Jennifer)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article is directed toward understanding the impact of Internet use on the accessibility of politically relevant online discourse (news and political discussion) and about the extent to which these forms of discourse are meaningfully and intimately connected, Through the use of nationally representative survey data, findings suggest: (1) when compared to offline counterparts, SES and political knowledge are equally, if not more relevant to frequent use of online news and engagement in online political discussion, suggesting that Internet use has contributed to a slightly less accessible public sphere; (2) when compared to offline counterparts, the relationship between online news and online discussion is the strongest, suggesting an especially intimate and important connection between the two forms of discourse.']
[u'Breaking the expertise barrier: understanding activist strategies in science and technology policy domains', u'Parthasarathy, S (Parthasarathy, Shobita)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article develops a classificatory framework for analyzing advocacy group strategy in S&T policy domains - an area of increasing citizen activism since the 1960s In such domains, activists may be locked out by what I call the 'expertise barrier', which blocks those lacking specialized knowledge from full participation. This article argues that activists' strategies to break through the expertise barrier can be classified into four categories deploying established expertise, introducing new kinds of facts, introducing new policy-making logics, and attacking bureaucratic rules It suggests further that focusing research on these four categories can facilitate hypothesis generation and future avenues of inquiry, including comparison among advocacy challenges in diverse technical domains To illustrate this framework, 1 present examples from activism in two areas breast cancer research and patents on life forms"]
[u"Seniors' Online Communities: A Quantitative Content Analysis", u'Nimrod, G (Nimrod, Galit)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Purpose: To examine the contents and characteristics of seniors\' online communities and to explore their potential benefits to older adults. Design and Methods: Quantitative content analysis of a full year\'s data from 14 leading online communities using a novel computerized system. The overall database included 686,283 messages. Results: There was a constant increase in the daily activity level during the research period. Content analysis identified 13 main subjects discussed in the communities, including (in descending order) "Fun on line," "Retirement," "Family," "Health," "Work and Study," "Recreation" "Finance," "Religion and Spirituality," "Technology," "Aging," "Civic and Social," "Shopping," and "Travels." The overall tone was somewhat more positive than negative. Implications: The findings suggest that the utilities of Information and Communications Technologies for older adults that were identified in previous research are valid for seniors\' online communities as well. However, the findings suggest several other possible benefits, which may be available only to online communities. The communities may provide social support, contribute to self-preservation, and serve as an opportunity for self-discovery and growth. Because they offer both leisure activity and an expanded social network, it is suggested that active participation in the communities may contribute to the well-being of older adults. Directions for future research and applied implications are further discussed.']
[u'The role of management councils of public polices: a debate on practices in the Municipal Councils of Chapeco, Santa Catarina State', u'Kleba, ME (Kleba, Maria Elisabeth); Matielo, A (Matielo, Alexandre); Comerlatto, D (Comerlatto, Dunia); Renk, E (Renk, Elisonia); Colliselli, L (Colliselli, Liane)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"In this work we analyze the effectiveness of social control from a study of attributions of Municipal Councils of: social assistance, children and teenagers' rights, health and, education in Chapeco city. The data was collected by the reading of official documents, application of questionnaires, systematic observation and a meeting in which the focus group technique was used. Five categories of action were found: to deliberate, to supervise, to regulate, to give assistance, to communicate, and other less frequents actions. The analysis of information revels an overcharge of attributions of bureaucracy, restricting the political debate on the role of councilors. Besides this, we question the legitimacy of the conferred attributions, considering the objective conditions of its participation: the volunteer character, non-remunerated; the restrict time of the meetings the lack of qualified and self-made physical and operational structure, and others. The Management Councils are the spaces of citizenship practice, what requires a bigger actuation in creation and strength of dialogue processes with different social actors, establishing a connection in the partner net in favor of dealing with social problems of the city and the construction of favorable conditions for life."]
[u'Building Social Capital in the Digital Age of Civic Engagement', u'Mandarano, L (Mandarano, Lynn); Meenar, M (Meenar, Mahbubur); Steins, C (Steins, Christopher)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The use of digital technologies to enhance traditional public participation processes and to build a new form of a social capital-digital social capital-is being embraced in a range of planning practices. This article presents a discussion of how the digital age is influencing public participation and its implications for building social capital. The article highlights critical concerns to consider when embracing Internet tools for civic engagement and when evaluating such practices. The authors conclude with a call for scholarly research to assess the constraints and opportunities presented by this emergent trend and comparative studies to traditional modes of public participation.']
[u'Mobile communication and social capital: an analysis of geographically differentiated usage patterns', u'Campbell, SW (Campbell, Scott W.); Kwak, N (Kwak, Nojin)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Drawing from a representative sample of adults in the USA, this study explored the links between mobile communication and select indicators of social capital, while also accounting for usage patterns regarding the proximity of mobile contact. Overall, the findings show that mobile phone use intersects with proximity in distinctive ways that are related to spending leisure time with others in a face-to-face context and being active in organized groups and clubs. For individuals with primarily local usage patterns, both voice calling and text messaging were positively associated with social leisure activity. For those who primarily used the mobile phone to contact others from a distance, text messaging was positively related to social leisure activity, and for those whose mobile contacts were balanced between local and distant, voice calling was positively associated with active membership in organizations. Interpretation of these findings and directions for future research are offered in the discussion.']
[u'A THEORETICAL AND ANALYTICAL FRAMEWORK TOWARD NETWORKED COMMUNITIES A CASE OF THE ELECTRONIC COMMUNITY INFORMATION COMMONS', u'Nah, S (Nah, Seungahn)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The essay builds a theoretical framework toward the electronic information commons that can bridge virtually and physically networked communities. Relying on Habermas' theory of communicative action, first, the essay maps out community as a unit of democracy in a civil society context through which it provides a meta theoretical framework to understand a conceptual framework of the electronic community information commons from such theoretical perspectives as the public sphere, social capital, and networked communities Then, the essay proposes an analytical framework that enables scholars and researchers alike to examine how community computer networks or virtual communities contribute to physical communities and vice versa through potential research agenda and questions. Theoretical, methodological, and practical issues are discussed."]
[u'WebMapMedia: a map-based Web application for facilitating participation in spatial planning', u'Nuojua, J (Nuojua, Johanna)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'In this paper, a new map-based Web application developed for facilitating citizen participation in spatial planning is studied. Two planning experiments testing the map-based application called WebMapMedia are featured. The literature review of the paper describes attempts to utilize geographic information systems (GIS) in participation, pointing out severe weaknesses of these systems in acquiring and processing qualitative local knowledge. The results of the experiments show that the Web-based technology supports regular but short-term "lunch break participation" that occurs in the week during the office hours. The other results reveal a symbiotic relationship between conventional and Web-based means of participation and the potential of the Web-based technology to broaden participation. It is also found that if the technology can be adapted to the stages of the planning process, it may facilitate knowledge creation in the process. The Google Maps mashup based on Web 2.0 approach exhibits certain advantages over GIS-based solutions. Based on the results, it is argued that a prerequisite for the full utilization of the Web-based technology in participation is the evolution of the planning process and the attitudes of the planners.']
[u'Public Purpose, Government Authority and Collective Power', u'Bourgon, J (Bourgon, Jocelyne)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Since the 1980s, reforms have dominated government agendas around the world; governments embarked on a remarkable journey of innovation. The pace of reform is not likely to abate. An increasing number of public policy issues call for the active contribution of many actors across and beyond government and require government to work outside of conventional boundaries. They compel government to use its authority and resources to enable and empower others. Increased complexity and uncertainty within policy issues and governance contexts are prompting governments to improve their ability to anticipate, intervene, innovate, learn, and adapt. Future reforms will necessitate an expanded view of the roles of government and citizens.While government remains the steward of collective interest with the power to intervene, government needs to explore how it can work with citizens and other actors to produce results of high public value. As governments move towards producing results with citizens, they strike a more complete set of relationships and expand the repertoire of roles each can play to achieve results. These reforms will allow a broader definition of public results that emphasizes the importance of both public policy and civic results. The latter build credibility, while the former increase legitimacy. Both enhance citizens\' trust in government. Public administrators have thus far been working from an incomplete definition of results that does not give sufficient weight to civic results.Finally, future reforms will also require a more dynamic understanding of governance and public administration that supports the building of capacity. Capacity building in new areas is required to pursue the public good in an increasingly unpredictable global environment, but this work must begin by valuing and preserving existing capacities. Central among these is the focus on compliance, the hallmark of good government. It includes: a respect for the rule of law and public institutions; due process; accountability; and public sector values. These factors contribute to providing a solid institutional foundation for public organizations. Public administrators should also preserve their focus on performance. This includes: making government more productive and efficient; improving service delivery across organizational silos; being responsive to the expectations of citizens; improving governance processes; and harnessing the power of modern information and communication technologies.Notwithstanding concerted efforts to build government capacity to anticipate, detect and intervene, unpredictable events and shocks will occur. Given this, government must also focus on resilience by building the capacity to innovate, learn and adapt, and by ensuring a more equitable distribution of risks. Implementing measures to improve anticipative, innovative and adaptive capacities will require targeted investments for the long term and tolerance of some "excess" capacity. Ultimately, this will require recognition that less government, and more efficient government, does not necessarily amount to better government.']
[u'Collective intelligence in law enforcement - The WikiCrimes system', u"Furtado, V (Furtado, Vasco); Ayres, L (Ayres, Leonardo); de Oliveira, M (de Oliveira, Marcos); Vasconcelos, E (Vasconcelos, Eurico); Caminha, C (Caminha, Carlos); D'Orleans, J (D'Orleans, Johnatas); Belchior, M (Belchior, Mairon)", 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Collaboration is on the rise, primordially leveraged by the Web 2.0 in which the difference between information producer and consumer decreases significantly. In this paper we describe WikiCrimes, an example of a Web 2.0 application that offers a collaborative environment based on the use and direct manipulation of maps, in order to register and research criminal events. WikiCrimes is driven by three goals: (i) to give more transparency and publicity to criminal information, (ii) to provide means for citizen prevention, and (iii) to reduce the phenomenon of under-reporting (crimes that are not notified to authorities). In the paper we pay particular attention to the fact that in this context, finding the equilibrium between people\'s participation and information credibility is crucial. Anonymous mass collaboration is the easiest way to receive information; however, the credibility of the received information is depreciated, because the source of information is unknown. We particularly concentrate on the ways we have created to keep the "participation vs. reliability of information" trade-off at good level. The reputation model is the main component created with this purpose. The experiences and the obstacles we are facing in the implementation of the project are the subjects of discussion and analyses. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.']
[u'E-democracy@China: does it work?', u'Yuan, WL (Yuan, Wenli)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The diffusion of the Internet in China has provoked heated discussion about its impact on democracy in the country. Based on an extensive review of the literature, this paper examines the political impact of the Internet in China. It argues that the Internet itself will not be a driving force for political changes, but rather will play a facilitating role during democratization in China. This paper takes a macroscopic approach, and its main contribution lies in three areas. First, it provides a succinct synthesis of the current research on the development of the Internet, censorship, and counter-censorship in China. Second, it adopts a comparative perspective by relating the roles of the Internet to those of traditional media during the democratization processes in history. Third, it offers insights into factors that mediate the democratizing power of the Internet in China, including citizens' political participation, the political environment, media revitalization, and international influence."]
[u'From Environmental Campaigns to Advancing the Public Dialog: Environmental Communication for Civic Engagement', u'Brulle, RJ (Brulle, Robert J.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This essay examines the claims of environmental identity campaigns regarding the issue of climate change. Identity campaigns are based on the idea that more effective environmental messages developed through the application of cognitive science by professional communications experts can favorably influence public opinion, and thus support legislative action to remedy this issue. Based on a review of the sociological and psychological literature regarding social change and mobilization, I argue that while this approach may offer short term advantages, it is most likely incapable of developing the large scale mobilization necessary to enact the massive social and economic changes necessary to address global warming. Specifically, theoretical and empirical research on the role of the public sphere, civil society and social movements shows that democratic civic engagement is core to successful social change efforts. However, identity campaigns focus on a communications process that centers on elite led one way communications, which falls to allow for any form of civic engagement and public dialogue. This undermines the creation of a democratic process of change and reinforces the professionalization of political discourse, leading to a weakening of the mobilization capacity over this issue of global warming. The essay concludes with the outlines of an environmental communication process that aims at enhancing civic engagement and democratic decision making.']
[u'MOBILIZING FRIENDS AND STRANGERS Understanding the role of the Internet in the Step It Up day of action', u'Fisher, DR (Fisher, Dana R.); Boekkooi, M (Boekkooi, Marije)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'What role does the Internet play in mobilizing participants in days of action? Although most research has focused on the way that computer-mediated communication is changing transnational collective action, it is unclear how social movement reliance on this new form of communication is modifying protest within nation-states. This paper analyses how participants in a national day of action in the United States were mobilized, focusing on the role that the Internet played. We find that a very high percentage of participants in all cities heard about the day of action through e-mail lists or websites. Those who mobilized through the Internet, however, were very different from those who mobilized through personal and organizational ties. In particular, the participants who heard about the event through all channels of mediated communication - including the Internet - were much more likely to come to the event alone than those who heard about it through their social networks. The paper concludes by discussing the implications of our findings to collective action and civic participation in the digital age.']
[u'CITIZENSHIP AND COMMUNICATION IN ONLINE YOUTH CIVIC ENGAGEMENT PROJECTS', u'Wells, C (Wells, Chris)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This study analyses 36 online civic engagement websites for youth to understand the civic skills and communication opportunities offered to youth in different online environments. The research design draws on recent theoretical work on citizen identity and the design features of online communities to develop a picture of online engagement projects in two dimensions: the model of citizenship encouraged and the style of communication available to users. Results suggest that the citizenship styles inscribed in sites are correlated with the styles of communication the sites offer. In particular, sites that present more conventional civic skills, such as appealing to government for solutions to problems, tend to heavily control how users use the sites; in contrast, those that present citizenship as a broader, expressive engagement with issues and culture are less inclined to define the terms of users' interactions. This article discusses the implications of the findings for understanding how online civic projects succeed or fail to connect with young people, the possibility of creating sites that both appeal to young people and offer important civic skills, and directions for future study and practice."]
[u'SOAP BOX OR BOX OF SOAP Consumer understanding of the news, advertising, and funding sources for user-generated content', u'McMillan, SJ (McMillan, Sally J.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Mass media in the USA have hosted news content and delivered audiences to advertisers. While advertiser support for traditional news media has been dropping, activities of online 'citizen journalists' have been on the rise. A key question for both traditional news organizations and citizen journalists is who will pay for online news. In-depth interviews were used to gain insight into consumer understanding of changes in the relationship between news and advertising as both adapt to the online environment. Three types of news and advertising users emerged: engagers, receivers, and avoiders. The research also identified three approaches to user-generated content: broad participation, participation primarily in interpersonal exchanges, and avoidance. Implications are discussed for how these consumer perceptions and activities might shape future funding of online news."]
[u'Toward a Theory of Citizen Interface with Political Discussion and News in the Contemporary Public Sphere', u'Brundidge, J (Brundidge, Jennifer)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The Internet, with its vast and often revolutionary array of politically relevant discursive spaces-news sites and forums of political discussion-has stimulated renewed interest in traditional debates surrounding both the structural arrangements of news and political discussion, and their impact on citizens. As suggested by the "classic public sphere," deliberative democracy must have a strong structural/institutional foundation. One sign of strength involves access. Another sign of strength involves the extent to which news and political discussion are meaningfully connected in time and space, allowing people to traverse with relative ease from one to the other. This article is directed toward examining the impact of Internet use on the accessibility and "traversability" of the contemporary public sphere.']
[u'Community-based production of geographic information using open source software and Web 2.0', u'Hall, GB (Hall, G. Brent); Chipeniuk, R (Chipeniuk, Raymond); Feick, RD (Feick, Robert D.); Leahy, MG (Leahy, Michael G.); Deparday, V (Deparday, Vivien)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article presents an innovative approach to citizen-led production of Web-based geographic information where new and/or existing digital map features are linked to annotations or commentary and citizens engage in synchronous and/or asynchronous discussion. The article discusses the relationship of the approach to public participation geographic information systems (PPGISs) and the emerging challenges associated with volunteered geographic information. A custom-developed, open source software tool named MapChat is used to facilitate the citizen inputs and discussions. The information generated from applying the approach through a series of community workshops is presented and discussed in light of current issues in PPGIS and volunteered geographic information research.']
[u'User-friendly web mapping: lessons from a citizen science website', u'Newman, G (Newman, Greg); Zimmerman, D (Zimmerman, Don); Crall, A (Crall, Alycia); Laituri, M (Laituri, Melinda); Graham, J (Graham, Jim); Stapel, L (Stapel, Linda)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Citizen science websites are emerging as a common way for volunteers to collect and report geographic ecological data. Engaging the public in citizen science is challenging and, when involving online participation, data entry, and map use, becomes even more daunting. Given these new challenges, citizen science websites must be easy to use, result in positive overall satisfaction for many different users, support many different tasks, and ensure data quality. To begin reaching these goals, we built a geospatially enabled citizen science website, evaluated its usability, and gained experience by working with and listening to citizens using the website. We sought to determine general perceptions, discover potential problems, and iteratively improve website features. Although the website was rated positively overall, map-based tasks identified a wide range of problems. Given our results, we redesigned the website, improved the content, enhanced the ease of use, simplified the map interface, and added features. We discuss citizen science websites in relation to online Public Participation Geographic Information Systems, examine the role(s) websites may play in the citizen science research model, discuss how citizen science research advances GIScience, and offer guidelines to improve citizen-based web mapping applications.']
[u'Sources of Civic Engagement in Latin America: Empirical Evidence from Rural Ecuadorian Communities', u'Schmitt, C (Schmitt, Carina)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The concept of civic engagement has greatly influenced the policy-making process in the field of development cooperation. However, in contrast to a vast quantity of empirical studies for the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)-world, there is only little knowledge with respect to developing countries. Using Ecuadorian rural communities as an example, this paper analyses socioeconomic, political and cultural sources of civic engagement with multivariate regression analyses, which demonstrate that volunteering strongly depends on the cultural tradition. Additionally, the empirical results show that a pure application of the theoretical assumptions and operationalisations from the OECD-world is misleading, when analysing social processes in developing countries.']
[u'The Establishment of an Ethical Guideline for Genetic Testing Through Citizen Consensus via the Internet in Taiwan', u'Lin, CF (Lin, Chiou-Fen); Lu, MS (Lu, Meei-Shiow); Chung, CC (Chung, Chun-Chih); Yang, CM (Yang, Che-Ming)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Background: With the rapid advance of genetics, the application of genetic testing has become increasingly popular. Test results have had a tremendous impact on individuals who receive the test and his or her family. The ethical, legal, and social implications (ELSI) of genetic testing cannot be overlooked. The Internet is a potential tool for public engagement.Objectives: This study aimed at establishing ethical guidelines for genetic testing in Taiwan through a participatory citizen consensus approach via the Internet.Methods: The research method used was a citizen consensus conference modified by an Internet application and the Delphi technique. The citizen consensus conference is one of the public participation mechanisms. The draft ethical guidelines for genetic testing were written by an expert panel of 10. The Delphi technique was applied to a citizen panel recruited via the Internet until a consensus was reached. Our research population was restricted to people who had Internet access.Results: Included in the citizen panel were 100 individuals. A total of 3 individuals dropped out of the process. The citizen panel was exposed to the issues through Internet learning and sharing. In all, 3 rounds of anonymous questionnaires were administered before a consensus was reached in terms of importance and feasibility. The result was ethical guidelines composed of 4 categories and 25 items. The 4 categories encompassed decision making (6 items), management of tissue samples (5 items), release of results (8 items), and information flow (6 items). On a scale of 1 to 10, the average (SD) importance score for the decision-making category was 9.41 (SD 0.58); for the management of tissue samples category, the average score was 9.62 (SD 0.49); for the release of results category, the average score was 9.34 (SD = 0.59); and for the information flow category, the average score was 9.6 (SD = 0.43). Exploratory analyses indicated that participants with higher education tended to attribute more importance to these guidelines.Conclusions: The resulting recommended ethical guidelines had 4 categories and 25 items. We hope through the implementation of these guidelines that mutual trust can be established between health care profession and the general public with respect to genetic tests.']
[u'The Interplay Between Media Use and Interpersonal Communication in the Context of Healthy Lifestyle Behaviors: Reinforcing or Substituting?', u'Lee, CJ (Lee, Chul-joo)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study aims to explore how media use for health information and interpersonal health communication interact in the context of healthy lifestyle behaviors. This study hypothesizes that media use for health information and interpersonal health communication will serve as substitutes for one another. To test this hypothesis, this study uses a nationally representative survey of 2,107 civilian, noninstitutionalized adults in the United States. The results show that the associations between television use and Internet use and healthy lifestyle behaviors are enhanced among those who talk about health issues with their family and friends less frequently, which supports the substitution model. The implications that these findings have for future research are discussed.']
[u"Did Social Media Really Matter? College Students' Use of Online Media and Political Decision Making in the 2008 Election", u'Kushin, MJ (Kushin, Matthew James); Yamamoto, M (Yamamoto, Masahiro)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This study examined college students' use of online media for political purposes in the 2008 election. Social media attention, online expression, and traditional Internet attention were assessed in relation to political self-efficacy and situational political involvement. Data from a Web survey of college students showed significant positive relationships between attention to traditional Internet sources and political self-efficacy and situational political involvement. Attention to social media was not significantly related to political self-efficacy or involvement. Online expression was significantly related to situational political involvement but not political self-efficacy. Implications are discussed for political use of online media for young adults."]
[u"The Writing on the Wall: A Content Analysis of College Students' Facebook Groups for the 2008 Presidential Election", u'Fernandes, J (Fernandes, Juliana); Giurcanu, M (Giurcanu, Magda); Bowers, KW (Bowers, Kevin W.); Neely, JC (Neely, Jeffrey C.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This study looks at student Facebook groups supporting the 2008 presidential candidates, John McCain and Barack Obama, from largest land-grant universities in seven battleground states. The findings of a content analysis of wall posts show that students are using Facebook to facilitate dialog and civic political involvement. In opposition to pro-McCain groups, pro-Obama groups have wider time frame coverage and demonstrate substantively higher site activity. Political discussions related to the political civic process, policy issues, campaign information, candidate issues, and acquisition of campaign products dominate across groups and election seasons. An examination of the content of wall posts based on the four categories of the Michigan Model of voting behavior (partisanship, group affiliation, candidate image, and political/campaign issues) reveals that in the primary season, pro-Obama groups focus mostly on short-term topics (candidate image and campaign issues), whereas pro-McCain groups focus mostly on long-term topics (partisanship and group affiliation). The overall findings of this study suggest that youth online communities actively follow campaigns and post comments that foster the political dialog and civic engagement.']
[u'Online Network Size, Efficacy, and Opinion Expression: Assessing the Impacts of Internet Use in China', u'Shen, F (Shen, Fei); Wang, N (Wang, Ning); Guo, ZS (Guo, Zhongshi); Guo, L (Guo, Liang)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The severe internet censorship implemented in China naturally raises substantial doubt about the potential democratic functions of the internet. This study presents some initial empirical evidence for internet use's impact on online opinion expression in Mainland China by analyzing three survey datasets collected by the World Internet Project in 2003, 2005, and 2007. Results reveal a positive relationship between internet use and online expression. The positive association is partially mediated by online network size, but not necessarily by internet efficacy. Although government censorship has in a measure successfully stifled people's; willingness to speak out, it is argued that the networking function of the internet could still bring incremental changes to the Chinese society through constructing loosely structured networks."]
[u'Stakeholder Perceptions and Responses to GM Crops and Foods: the Case of Taiwan', u'Fan, MF (Fan, Mei-Fang)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Many societies face-the problem of how to cope adequately with new inventions and technologies. Many are now in the middle of debates about GM crops and foods. This paper examines how stakeholders in Taiwan perceive GM crops and foods and the implications of these perceptions for risk governance and sustainable development. The research utilizes documentary analysis, data gathered from in-depth interviews and focus group discussions. It shows civil groups' unease about unknown consequences, skepticism of the relations between politics and business, and criticisms of the failure by the government and the media to inform the public. It highlights Christian and Buddhist responses to GM issues, because elements of these religious groups have devoted themselves to public awaking for a sustainable society. It argues for the need to promote informed public deliberations and stakeholder debates on decisions about GM technology and the establishment of alliances for dealing with GM controversies and promoting sustainable development. Copyright (C) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd and ERP Environment."]
[u'ARGUING INTO THE DIGITAL VOID? ON THE POSITION OF ONLINE DEBATES IN THE LOCAL PUBLIC SPHERES OF FOUR NORWEGIAN MUNICIPALITIES', u'Winsvold, M (Winsvold, Marte)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"With the advent of the Internet, numerous online debate options have been created, giving citizens new arenas of political communication where space for expression is nearly unlimited. However, if online forums shall invigorate the public debate, the arguments published online must reach outside their initial setting. In this article, the position of news paper-hosted online forums is studied and compared to the position of letters to the editor in the local public spheres of four Norwegian municipalities. The forums' visibility to the public and the degree to which they are paid attention to by other media and by local politicians are used as indicators of their position. Only one-tenth of the citizens regularly read the online forums, and when referred to in other media or in politics, they have an agenda-reinforcing rather than an agenda-expanding role. The greatest challenges to the online forums' position seem to be the audiences' perceptions of the quality of the discussion, along with the vast amount of contributions which makes them reader unfriendly."]
[u'Internet: A Gateway to Democracy? A Comparative Analysis of Turkish and Italian e-Government Experiences', u'Saylan, I (Saylan, Ibrahim)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This paper, considering effective citizen participation in decision-making processes as one of the indispensable aspects, of democracy, seeks to investigate how and to what extent central and local governments make use of potentialities of ICTs, particularly the Internet, to improve democratic processes. For this purpose, after giving an account Of the theoretical debate on the relationship between e-government and e-democracy, Internet use of the Turkish and Italian central governments has been analyzed with the comparative content analysis method By means of a comparison of Official websites, namely www.turkiye.gov.tr and www.italia.gov.it, in terms of design and operation, it is sought to understand how these governments perceive and practice the relationship between e-government and e-democracy.']
[u'Coping with uncertainty: Assessing nanotechnologies in a citizen panel in Switzerland', u'Burri, RV (Burri, Regula Valerie)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The policy shift towards "upstream public engagement" requires dealing with a lack of individual and stabilized scientific knowledge that accompanies any early stage of research and development. This article examines how actors cope with this epistemic uncertainty when deliberating emerging technologies. Analyzing the arguments of the participants in a Swiss citizen panel on nanotechnology, the article explores how actors form their opinions in an epistemically nonstabilized situation. The article shows how actors develop a strategy to handle this situation: analogies, such as to other risk technologies or "nature," and personal experiences as patients and consumers are used as interpretive patterns and serve as tools to cope with the unknown. Focusing on the ways uncertainty is handled, this approach is differentiated from other models to explain public attitudes toward emerging technologies, such as the "scientific literacy model" or the "cognitive miser model.".']
[u'Foresight tools for participative policy-making in inter-governmental processes in developing countries: Lessons learned from the eLAC Policy Priorities Delphi', u'Hilbert, M (Hilbert, Martin); Miles, I (Miles, Ian); Othmer, J (Othmer, Julia)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The paper shows how international foresight exercises, through online and offline tools, can make policy-making in developing countries more participatory, fostering transparency and accountability of public decision-making. A five-round Delphi exercise (with 1454 contributions), based on the priorities of the 2005-2007 Latin American and Caribbean Action Plan for the Information Society (eLAC2007), was implemented. This exercise aimed at identifying future priorities that offered input into the inter-governmental negotiation of a 2008-2010 Action Plan (eLAC2010). It is believed to be the most extensive online participatory policy-making foresight exercise in the history of intergovernmental processes in the developing world to date. In addition to the specific policy guidance provided, the major lessons learned include (1) the potential of Policy Delphi methods to introduce transparency and accountability into public decision-making, especially in developing countries; (2) the utility of foresight exercises to foster multi-agency networking in the development community; (3) the usefulness of embedding foresight exercises into established mechanisms of representative democracy and international multilateralism, such as the United Nations: (4) the potential of online tools to facilitate participation in resource-scarce developing countries; and (5) the resource-efficiency stemming from the scale of international foresight exercises, and therefore its adequacy for resource-scarce regions. Two different types of practical implications have been observed. One is the governments' acknowledgement of the value of collective intelligence from civil society, academic and private sector participants of the Delphi and the ensuing appreciation of participative policy-making. The other is the demonstration of the role that can be played by the United Nations (and potentially by other inter-governmental agencies) in international participatory policy-making in the digital age, especially if they modernize the way they assist member countries in developing public policy agendas. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."]
[u'CROWDSOURCING THE PUBLIC PARTICIPATION PROCESS FOR PLANNING PROJECTS', u'Brabham, DC (Brabham, Daren C.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Public involvement is a central concern for urban planners, but the challenge for planners is how best to implement such programs, given many difficulties inherent in the typical public involvement process. The medium of the Web enables us to harness collective intellect among a population in ways face-to-face planning meetings cannot. This article argues that the crowdsourcing model, a successful, Web-based, distributed problem solving and production model for business, is an appropriate model for enabling the citizen participation process in public planning projects. This article begins with an exploration of the challenges of public participation in urban planning projects, particularly in the harnessing of creative solutions. An explanation of the theories of collective intelligence and crowd wisdom follows, arguing for the medium of the Web as an appropriate technology for harnessing far-flung genius. An exploration of crowdsourcing in a hypothetical neighborhood planning example, along with a consideration of the challenges of implementing crowdsourcing, concludes the article.']
[u'PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND THE CONCEPT OF SPACE IN ENVIRONMENTAL GOVERNANCE: AN APPLICATION OF PPGIS', u'Sun, MTW (Sun, Milan Tung-Wen); Tsai, YT (Tsai, Yun-Tung); Shih, MC (Shih, Mei-Chiang); Lin, JYW (Lin, Jessica Yu-Wen)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Citizen participation ought to be important in environmental governance. However, environmental issues are usually defined as science-related ones, wherein expert knowledge is more important than the opinions, demands or needs of citizens. On the other hand, environmental issues involve spatial dimensions, the geographic characteristics of which require specific techniques to analyse. PPGIS is applied to study An-Shun, the site of a well-known pollution case in Taiwan, to reveal, through a participatory process, the perception of space of citizens of a nearby community. The results of this study suggest that the government needs to ensure more citizen participation in its future Plans for the decontamination and renovation of the An-Shun site. Lay knowledge or citizen perceptions of space should not replace scientific knowledge, but can supplement it. They are additional views that ought to be considered by government agencies in dealing with environmental issues. Copyright (C) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.']
[u'Climate change scenarios and citizen-participation: Mitigation and adaptation perspectives in constructing sustainable futures', u'Larsen, K (Larsen, Katarina); Gunnarsson-Ostling, U (Gunnarsson-Ostling, Ulrika)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This paper discusses adaptation and mitigation strategies as outlined in climate change scenarios. The adaptive perspective is closely connected to the concept of resilience understood as different views on nature's capacity to absorb shocks, renewal and re-organization. In constructing normative scenarios images of the future are generated illustrating potential ways of living, travelling and consuming products and services where certain goals such as a reduced climate impact are fulfilled. This paper argues that tension arising from climate strategies relying on either adaptation or mitigation strategies, or combining the two strategies, warrant further examination. In this paper the inter-relationships between adaptation and mitigation are discussed by examining processes of citizen-participation in constructing scenarios and applying the concepts of resilience, vulnerability and adaptive capacity. We discuss this using the concept of deliberative planning processes as a means to achieve legitimate, effective and sustainable futures. As a part of this approach, we argue that methods for citizen-participation applied in exploring different science and technology options also provide useful insight for this type of planning processes. The theoretical arguments are combined with examples from environmental scenario construction in practice. The paper brings attention to tensions between sustainability content values, such as reduced climate impact, and more process-oriented values such as legitimacy, learning and participatory scenario construction. Moreover, the concept of open innovation processes is introduced to the context of participatory scenario construction comparing shared ground in terms of user-involvement in search of novel solutions and also increasing robustness of action plans implemented to reduce climate change. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."]
[u'Weblogs, traditional sources online and political participation: an assessment of how the internet is changing the political environment', u'De Zuniga, HG (De Zuniga, Homero Gil); Puig-I-Abril, E (Puig-I-Abril, Eulalia); Rojas, H (Rojas, Hernando)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Research has shown consistently that news consumption both online and offline is related positively to interpersonal discussion, political involvement and political engagement. However, little consideration has been given to the role that new sources of information may exert on different forms of political engagement. Based on secondary analysis of data collected by the Pew Internet & American Life Project, this article contrasts the influence of traditional sources of information online with that of emergent sources (blogs) in predicting further political discussion, campaigning and participation in both the online and the offline domains. The results show that the use of traditional sources online is related positively to different types of political engagement, both online and offline. Most interestingly, the article finds that blog use emerges as an equally important predictor of political engagement in the online domain. Its analyses provide support for the contention that asserts the democratic potential of the internet.']
[u'Political Blogs and Blogrolls in Canada Forums for Democratic Deliberation?', u'Koop, R (Koop, Royce); Jansen, HJ (Jansen, Harold J.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Several theorists have entertained the possibility that the egalitarian nature of Internet-based discussion may facilitate meaningful democratic deliberative discussions amongst citizens. This article provides a preliminary empirical test of these claims by examining the extent to which blogs and blogroll communities act as forums for such deliberations. The analysis uses a dataset derived from a content analysis performed on blogs from three Canadian partisan blogrolls in October 2005. We perform three tests of the deliberative qualities of blog-based discussions: (a) whether discussion is characterized by equality of participation; (b) whether bloggers discuss substantive issues; and (c) whether bloggers engage constructively in discussions with political opponents. We find that this online discussion does exhibit some deliberative characteristics but that this discussion is often characterized by inequality of discussion, a focus on non-substantive issues, and unconstructive engagement between bloggers.']
[u'THE INTERNET AS A NEW CIVIC FORM THE HYBRIDISATION OF POPULAR AND CIVIC WEB USES IN FRANCE', u'Jouet, J (Jouet, Josiane)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The article argues that, beyond the boundaries of activists and concerned citizens, the massive appropriation of the Internet techniques of self-publication and the social modes of interactions on the web, lead to the extension of the public sphere to the rank-and-file. It takes the position that civic culture is not homogeneous and that it is shaped by different social practices that we examine through three sets of digital public spheres. First, the rise of "free speech" in professional journalistic practices on media websites expands to readers\' voices (in forums, online surveys, readers\' comments), while citizens\' engagement in amateur grassroots journalism challenges both the professional practices and the ethics of journalism. Second, the lively political blogosphere demonstrates how personal opinions on public matters find their legitimacy in the interactive dialogue in and across networks and lead to the emergence of rank-and-file opinion leaders, while also presenting various pitfalls, such as the redundancy of a limited number of viewpoints. Third, the social and leisurely Internet usage of ordinary citizens leads them to confront political and public issues in a casual and random manner, which in turn leads them to discuss these matters occasionally in online or face-to-face settings. This trend is reinforced by the innovative creation of user-generated content, mixing text, sound, and video formats that are widely circulated on the web. The rise of new forms of political and social critique on the Internet and the sharing of common experiences in the electronic space results in novel mean of public engagement and contributes to the shaping of a new civic and social form.']
[u'Co-Production and Health System Reform - From Re-Imagining To Re-Making', u'Dunston, R (Dunston, Roger); Lee, A (Lee, Alison); Boud, D (Boud, David); Brodie, P (Brodie, Pat); Chiarella, M (Chiarella, Mary)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"There is growing interest in the application of citizen participation within all areas of public sector service development, where it is increasingly promoted as a significant strand of post-neoliberal policy concerned with re-imagining citizenship and more participatory forms of citizen/consumer engagement. The application of such a perspective within health services, via co-production, has both beneficial, but also problematic implications for the organisation of such services, for professional practice and education. Given the disappointing results in increasing consumer involvement in health services via 'choice' and 'voice' participation strategies, the question of how the more challenging approach of co-production will fare needs to be addressed. The article discusses the possibilities and challenges of system-wide co-production for health. It identifies the discourse and practice contours of co-production, differentiating co-production from other health consumer-led approaches. Finally, it identifies issues critically related to the successful implementation of co-production where additional theorisation and research are required."]
[u'Anticorruption effects of information communication and technology (ICT) and social capital', u'Shim, DC (Shim, Dong Chul); Eom, TH (Eom, Tae Ho)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article examines the argument that Information Communication and Technology (ICT) and social capital serve as major factors to reduce corruption. ICT has the potential to reduce unnecessary human intervention in government work processes, thus reducing the need to monitor corrupt behavior. Furthermore, citizens living in a society with a high level of social capital are more likely to become actively involved in the political decision-making process, increasing the likelihood that public employees' corrupt behaviors will be exposed to the densely connected public. We also examined the relationship between social capital and ICT. Our statistical analysis, which used panels of datasets obtained from various sources, revealed that (1) ICT is an effective tool for reducing corruption; (2) social capital also has positive effects on anti-corruption, but various dimensions of social capital may have different impacts; and (3) the relationship between social capital and ICT is inconclusive."]
[u'Campaigns, Reflection, and Deliberation: Advancing an O-S-R-O-R Model of Communication Effects', u'Cho, J (Cho, Jaeho); Shah, DV (Shah, Dhavan V.); McLeod, JM (McLeod, Jack M.); McLeod, DM (McLeod, Douglas M.); Scholl, RM (Scholl, Rosanne M.); Gotlieb, MR (Gotlieb, Melissa R.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Recent communication research concerning participatory politics has found that the effects of media, especially campaign ads, conventional news, and online political resources, are largely mediated through interpersonal discussion about politics. This article extends this line of theorizing about the role of political conversation in citizen competence by testing an O-S-R-O-R model of campaign communication mediation, a modification and extension of the longstanding O-S-O-R model of communication effects. This model combines insights from iterations of the communication mediation model (McLeod et al., 2001; Shah et al., 2007) and cognitive mediation model (Eveland, 2001; Eveland, Shah, & Kwak, 2003) to theorize a set of the interrelated reasoning (R) processes that channel the influences of campaign exposure and news consumption on political engagement. Three key mediators of campaign and news influence are postulated: face-to-face political conversation, online political messaging, and cognitive reflection. We provide empirical evidence to test this model by merging two datasets: (1) tracking of the content and placement of campaign messages in the 2000 and 2004 election cycles, and (2) surveys of traditional and digital media consumption and levels of campaign participation during these same elections. Findings reveal that political conversation, political messaging, and cognitive reflection mediate the effects of campaign advertising exposure and news consumption on political participation and knowledge, providing considerable support for our theory. This O-S-R-O-R model helps organize a large body of theorizing and research on campaigns and conversation in the communication sciences.']
[u'BALANCING THE DIGITAL DEMOCRATIC DEFICIT? E-GOVERNMENT', u'Freeman, J (Freeman, Julie); Hutchins, B (Hutchins, Brett)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article responds to Thomas's (2004) call for investigation into how the internet and World Wide Web are changing government in Australia. It first discusses C-government principles and policies at the federal level, and then investigates initiatives and events in One of Australia most populous municipalities, the City, of Casey in Melbourne's southeast. The objective of this approach is to understand the broader context of e-government policy formulation in Australia, and connect this to the level of local government in order to understand the features and dynamics of existing e-government mechanisms. The evidence generated from this approach reveals an imbalance between set-vice delivery and civic engagement in c-government strategies, with the emphasis oil consumer-oriented set-vice delivery far outweighing civic participation and political dialogue. The analysis that follows outlines actual and potential political problems following from this imbalance - or 'digital democratic deficit' - and offers suggestions oil how equilibrium might he restored"]
[u'Legal environment of he civil nonprofit sector', u'Endre, B (Endre, Biro)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'The study shortly looks over the four main legislation period of the nonprofit sector: 19891991, 1992-1999, 2000-2006, and 2007-2008. After introducing the legal history, the study overviews the main points of the current legal situation. Main feature of this is that regulation of civil organizations is more vigorous than the development level of the regulation of contracting out public services. Third part of the study formulates the future problems and challenges:Legal conditions of the participation in the public services in central and local level (regulations of the announcement, publicity, notification and competition);Creation of civil specialties of the public procurement and state finance acts - especially focusing on the size, financial capacity and operation of NGOs. (For example regulation for grant-making responsibilities)Modification of the regulations of using public funds, in a way which does not exclude special co-management structures those are based on the "concept of participation" or "nothing about us without involving us";Strategic issues and questions regarding to the operation of Nacional Civil Fund,"Providing more space for NGOs in the financial system of public services (in contradiction of to the institutional based financial system); "Creation of a "nonprofit chamber" that would allow the cooperation, visibility, advocacy of NGOs in sectoral level as well as their participation in the public services; "Modification of the operation, work of the institutions those distribute public funds in a way that they can assist applicants to be more successful and motivated.']
[u"Understanding Eelam through the Diaspora's online engagement", u'Ranganathan, M (Ranganathan, Maya)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This paper argues that a study of Diaspora's engagement with the media, especially that of 'conflict-generated Diasporas' is imperative to understand the dynamics of the conflict in the homeland in order to devise ways and means for conflict resolution. In the light of arguments that Diasporas often contribute to the prolonging and sustenance of a conflict, the paper takes up the example of the Sri Lankan Tamil Diaspora in Australia and makes a case for exploring the members' engagement with media, particularly online media, to understand the dynamics and the trajectory of the conflict. This is significant, firstly, in the context of the Sri Lankan Diaspora's role in the two-decade-long civil strife in Sri Lanka that is currently poised to enter another phase, 1 and secondly in the context of websites having been and continuing to be one of the most sought after sources of information on the Sri Lankan Tamil issue. The paper argues that the study of the reception of information on Tamil Eelam online by members of the Diaspora is imperative for an understanding of the 'reconfiguration and remaking' of Tamil Eelam."]
[u'An Assessment of the Changing Community Media Parameters in East Africa', u'Nassanga, GL (Nassanga, Goretti Linda)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article assesses the changing patterns of community media in East Africa, following the recognition of citizenship ideology, rather than consumerism ideology, as an operational guide. Central to the discussion is the concept of participation, which has led to community media parameters changing from being defined in terms of geographical location to citizenship-based media that act as a public sphere where participants. go beyond the local community and national borders extending into "imagined communities." Unlike initial community media where members in the locality participated directly, people now largely depend on low-cost technology by calling in and sending e-mail messages to local radio stations. The article highlights issues of inclusion in the public debates by grassroots communities whereby the speakers become active participants in citizens\' media.']
[u'FROM SEEKERS TO ACTIVISTS Characteristics of youth civic identities in relation to media', u'Kotilainen, S (Kotilainen, Sirkku); Rantala, L (Rantala, Leena)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Media culture is a firm part of youth cultures today. Media can also be seen as one empowering technology in the information society alongside traditional school and government. What kind of civic identities are young people constructing in contemporary media culture? This article discusses media-saturated youth and audience agency, drawing on Dahlgren's ideas of civic culture. Relying on empirical data from two case studies in Finland, we will introduce a typology of civic identities, which the young construct as members of the public in relation to media. Our first case study is a youth civic website called Vaikuttamo. net and the second is the Youth Voice Editorial Board, which consists of a group of young people producing news for mainstream media. Our research supports various earlier observations that young people are firmly engaged, though to a lesser extent, in the formal political realm. We particularly want to emphasize the role of the local media and the expressive potential of young people. The media should be noted as a public forum where cultural and political modes of expression and participation can be mixed - not only in global online media, but also in more traditional local media such as television and newspaper. The research shows that young people are also willing to enter generational public discussions about civic issues instead of keeping to their own forums of media publicity."]
[u'WHAT IS REALLY GOING ON? Structure underlying face-to-face and online deliberation', u'Wojcieszak, ME (Wojcieszak, Magdalena E.); Baek, YM (Baek, Young Min); Carpini, MXD (Carpini, Michael X. Delli)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Does deliberative setting, online versus face-to-face, influence citizens' experiences? Are certain factors differently influential in one setting than in the other? We draw on a nationally representative survey and identify citizens who participated in both online and face-to-face settings (n = 82). We use structural equation modeling to first assess the effects that deliberation format has on the interrelationship between such crucial factors as motivations to deliberate, perceived diversity, elicited emotions, enhanced understanding, and goal evaluation. We later employ network analysis to ask which factor or which cluster of factors is more central to an overall experience in which format. Relying on citizens who participated in both settings and using within-subject analyses, we assure that the previously unnoted findings are attributable to the format per se rather than to individual characteristics. We discuss the theoretical, practical and methodological implications."]
[u'THE CIVIC SELL Young people, the internet, and ethical consumption', u'Banaji, S (Banaji, Shakuntala); Buckingham, D (Buckingham, David)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"This article is based on newly completed research looking at the role of the internet as a means of promoting civic engagement and participation among young people aged 15-25. It focuses on one specific aspect of this phenomenon, namely the use of websites to promote 'ethical consumption' among young people. This paper begins by briefly examining several intersecting works discussing not-for-profit marketing, commercial marketing, youth cultures and subcultures, politics, and ethical consumerism. It then moves on to examine the rhetorical constructions of youth identity and ethical consumerism on a range of civic websites, exploring the identifications and disavowals implicit in the language, layout, and imagery, and the conceptualizations civic-orientated Web producers have of their audiences and of consumption per se. This is achieved by taking a case-study approach involving a qualitative textual analysis of web-pages taken from UK and US-based sites such as Adbusters, Oxfam's Generation Why, Ethics Girls, Adili and Amnesty International, which advertise or promote the buying of ethical goods by young people. It also involves an analysis of the aims of the site producers, as exemplified on the sites' mission statements and in in-depth interviews. By means of this analysis, the article seeks to identify and assess the actually or potentially 'civic' aspects of these sites and to question the notion of ethical consumption in particular."]
[u'The democratic functions and dysfunctions of political talk radio: the case of Uganda', u'Mwesige, PG (Mwesige, Peter G.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'This article explores the promise and limits of Ugandan radio political talk shows as avenues of citizen participation and political competition. In particular, it examines the democratic functions and dysfunctions of political talk shows based on interpretive interrogation of data from content analysis, in-depth interviews and focus group discussions with content producers and audiences. The results appear to suggest that these programmes constitute a public sphere(s) where citizens seek and acquire information, carry out dialogue and debate on collective public problems and policy, challenge holders of official power into public accountability, send feedback upward to the political system, or simply let off steam. At another level, the government, political groups and other organised interests also use the talk shows to gauge public opinion. These political elites also use these programmes as platforms for political mobilisation, campaigning and advocacy. In other words, the civic space facilitated by talk radio is open to political groups and other organised interests as well as private citizens. However, it is not all bliss in the electronic public sphere. Political talk radio also appears to peddle misinformation and distortions; to invite adulterated debate that excites and inflames rather than informs; to give the public the illusion of influence; and, arguably, to lead to political inertia. At the group level, talk radio may have created an illusion of competition to the extent that it provided voice to oppositional political groups that were otherwise not fully free to participate in the political process. What we have, then, is an imperfect public sphere - but a sort of public sphere nonetheless. Implications of these developments for democratic transitions in Africa are discussed.']
[u"The Effect of Television Viewing on Adolescents' Civic Participation: Political Efficacy as a Mediating Mechanism", u'Hoffman, LH (Hoffman, Lindsay H.); Thomson, TL (Thomson, Tiffany L.)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"Pundits, parents, and scholars express concern about youth attention to late-night political comedy shows, such as The Daily Show, suggesting that such viewing is deleterious for an active, efficacious citizenry. Yet as civic participation declines among adults, it appears to be growing among adolescents. This study assessed the effects of television viewing on high school students' civic participation. Results demonstrate that viewing late-night TV and local TV news had a positive, significant effect on civic participation, and this relationship was mediated by political efficacy. Implications for the study of late-night TV and applications to research on political socialization are discussed."]
[u"Alternative Futures of Proactive Tools for a Citizen's Own Wellbeing", u'Meristo, T (Meristo, Tarja); Tuohimaa, H (Tuohimaa, Hanna); Leppimaki, S (Leppimaki, Sami); Laitinen, J (Laitinen, Jukka)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u"The aim of this paper is to create the basis for a vision of an empowered citizen who can control his/her life, especially in relation to health and personal wellbeing with the use of new ICT-tools. The methods used in the study are based on futures studies, especially on scenario methodology. Alternative future paths, i.e. scenarios are constructed using the scenario filter model that we have developed, with market, technology and society perspectives. Scenarios not resulting in the vision are described in what if analysis as well. The scenarios are combined with Vihera's model on citizen's skills, access and motivation to use new ICT-tools. The concept COPER is targeted to different user groups with an adaptable user interface and its development is user centered. We will consider the effects and the appropriate elements of COPER in every scenario, as well as the possibilities and challenges nursing will confront. As a result we will gain information of the characteristic of COPER that advance the vision. For the future development of COPER the alternative scenarios give the basis for flexibility planning, too."]
[u'Beyond the online/offline divide: Convergences of online and offline civic activities among youth', u'Hirzalla, F (Hirzalla, Fadi); van Zoonen, L (van Zoonen, Liesbet)', 'Web_of_Science', '--NO URL FOUND--', u'Based on a survey (n=808), we discuss how online and offline forms of civic participation among Dutch youth converge in modes of participation. With confirmatory factor analysis, we demonstrate that four modes of participation can be distinguished: Politics, Activism, Discussion and Consumption. The first three modes correlate strongly with each other, while Consumption proves to be a separate mode. Participants in Politics and Discussion generally score high on political participation and political efficacy, but participation in Activism and Consumption appears to be stimulated by other factors.']
['--sin autores--', 'Collaborative refinement of emergency plans through public engagement', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6144775', "Emergency plans are fundamental for the speedy and effective response in disaster situations. Plans are often constructed by teams of experts, who apply their expertise to define response procedures, but lack part of location-specific knowledge that can be very relevant to make decisions during responses. Such knowledge is, however, in the minds of people who use those spaces every day, but are not involved in the planning processes. In this paper, we advocate for citizens' involvement in emergency plan elaboration via Public Participation, a mechanism long time used in other areas of e-government. We define the steps of a collaborative process for the elicitation of citizen's knowledge via Public Participation. A summary of the results of an initial case study is used to demonstrate the feasibility of our proposal for improving emergency plans."]
['--sin autores--', 'Value Lab Asia: A Space for Physical and Virtual Interdisciplinary Research and Collaboration', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7272625', "Many contemporary research tasks require complex decision making and interdisciplinary collaboration among different groups of experts and stakeholders. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the planning and design of future cities - rapidly growing cities where the development and allocation of energy, housing, transportation and other scarce resources requires the active participation of architects, urban planners, government stakeholders and private citizens. In this paper, we show how recent advances in display technology can facilitate such collaboration and create new opportunities for participatory urban planning. We introduce the Value Lab Asia as a model for collaborative planning and value creation, and show how a multi-screen display management framework called the Tool Library integrates the laboratory's physical and software infrastructure with the planning process."]
['--sin autores--', 'Some Ethical Considerations for Gov 2.0 Using Web 2.0', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6119066', "The Australian Government has decided to use web 2.0 tools to engage, consult, share, and inform citizens through a program called Gov 2.0. The nature of the resulting collaborations shows that the government's aim is to become more open, participatory and accessible. This will change how those charged with carrying out the policies of the government, public servants carry out its business activities. While there are legal, procedural, social, technical, privacy, IP, policy, and cultural issues our aim here is to highlight some ethical concerns. Though early, it is envisaged that this new conjunction will give rise to additional ethical dimensions (especially role confusion ad conflict) due to the new forms of interactions and collaborations. This paper will examine some of the ethical issues for online participation and engagement using web 2.0 technologies and examine some hypothetical cases and how they might be understood."]
['--sin autores--', 'The applications of Neighborhood Transopoly in public participation decision making', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5980911', 'With the rapid urban development in China, there is an increasing demand for public participation in urban decision making. Neighborhood Transopoly is a kind of GIS-based visualization tool for engaging residents in creating more livable communities. Also it is an accessorial tool for the Public Participation Geographic Information Systems (PPGIS). It is very useful for common citizens to participate in the process of development and regeneration of their communities. However, it has not been introduced and used in China currently. This paper initially introduces the history, development, significance, architecture, applications and case study of Neighborhood Transopoly in detail. And then, we analyze its merits and demerits. Finally, based on the research in this paper, we present the possibilities, difficulties, and prospects of the applications of Neighborhood Transopoly integrated with PPGIS in Chinese large cities.']
['--sin autores--', 'Fostering transparency and participation in the data-based society: A sustainable architecture for a social platform for Open Data', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7441082', 'This paper focuses on innovative solutions to the problem of transparency in Public Administrations (PAs) by opening up public data and services so that citizens participation is facilitated and encouraged. We introduce the motivating principles and the architectural solutions to a Social Platform for Open Data, that is designed in order to provide a sustainable and re-usable framework to provide collaborative and social access to Open Data provided by PAs. Our overall objective is to propose a engage citizens by making them able to socially interact over Open Data, by forming or joining existing online communities that share common interest and discuss common issues of relevance to local policy, service delivery, and regulation. The proposed architectural solution is supporting the citizens in a collective relationship among them (as a network helping each other) and with PAs so that the information provided by the Public Administrations is shared, interpreted, personalized, made easier to understand and discussed to assess its meanings. The results and benefits of our approach, as well as potential impact in the pilot experiences that are planned, are also discussed.']
['--sin autores--', 'A proposal for digital mediation for direct public participation during electoral periods', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6263146', 'The current economic and social environment calls for civic involvement. This paper presents a proposal for digital mediation to encourage citizens to become involved and actively participate in electoral debates. The proposal consists of a Web application, iLeger, which seeks to bring together the key stakeholders in an election, voters and candidates, in a central, regulated and neutral site, fostering collaboration and multidirectional communication between them. We present the main functional areas of the Web application as well as the results of a case study about the Portuguese parliamentary elections held in 2011.']
['--sin autores--', 'Towards a Service Platform and Business Model for Mobile Participation', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5494853', 'In an attempt to bring citizens closer to governments, electronic participation services are increasingly receiving attention. Despite technological advances regarding smartphones and georeferencing, mobile extensions to e-participation solutions are lacking. We propose a generic service platform called mGeoWiki, which will provide a mobile interface for several participation services. Within this paper, we describe the first stages of the design research cycle, describing the problem and an initial proposed solution. We explicitly design the service concept simultaneously with the underlying business model in order to enhance the chances of eventual market success. Besides the instantiated service platform and business model, we contribute to literature by generating knowledge on how to design service platforms and business models simultaneously. Follow-up research will be conducted in a large, multi-university, international research project focusing on design and evaluation of the service platform and business model.']
['--sin autores--', 'Delivering Public Value: Synergistic Integration via Gov 2.0', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7427559', 'The potential of Gov 2.0 to facilitate greater communication, participation, and collaboration with citizens has been debated repeatedly in recent literature. However, Gov 2.0 fails to attract a satisfying level of citizen participation and has not lived up to expectations. Therefore, governments need to rethink how to engage the digital population via Gov 2.0 to achieve public value. To engage effectively, there needs to be a synergy between citizens and governments. The proposed research model in this paper aims to explain the synergy between citizens and governments that is needed to create public value via Gov 2.0. This synergistic interaction has emergent properties to create substantial public value, which is expected to result in many benefits including the increase in citizen participation via Gov 2. The theoretical foundation of the proposed research model builds on theories such as co-creation and public value. The paper concludes by suggesting further empirical research to evaluate and refine the research model.']
['--sin autores--', 'Ageing Well and Learning through Online Immersive Participation Using a Multi-user Web 3D Environment', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5962105', 'The Second Life (SL) multi-user virtual environment offers researcher opportunities to experiment with its rich communication, virtual collaboration, and 3-D content creation integrated tools. The SL synthetic world has already revealed great potential for heritage, education and learning but much of the existing applications made have focused on engagement with digital native audiences. The contribution of this paper identifies the importance of developing and designing tailored virtual places which older members of society can utilize easily and safely within this context, with a focused application of addressing social isolation, enabling well being and lifelong learning. In this paper we also discuss our experiences of introducing SL to an elderly community and imparting to them the skills required to interact within the 3D environment and the resources that we developed to support their induction and training. This paper explores the impact of this approach and signposts next steps in experimenting with the use of SL as a domesticated digital technology tool that offers potential to support Ageing Well in our Information Society. We believe that we are the first researchers to conduct a small scaled pilot study of this kind with two elder members of society both aged over 75.']
['--sin autores--', 'Human-agent-robot teamwork', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6212521', 'Researchers and developers are pursuing increasingly sophisticated roles for autonomous systems. Whether working within networked systems as software agents or embedded in robots and unmanned vehicles, what makes these systems valuable is their intelligent, active, and adaptive nature. These qualities are often characterized in intelligent systems literature by the word "autonomy"-a catch-all label that highlights the qualities of self-directedness and self-sufficiency in task performance. Though continuing research to make machines more active, adaptive, and functional is essential, the point of increasing such proficiencies is not merely to make the machines more independent during times when unsupervised activity is desirable or necessary, but also to make them more capable of sophisticated interdependent joint activity with people and other machines when such is required. That means autonomous systems must support not only fluid orchestration of task handoffs among different people and machines, but also combined participation on shared tasks requiring continuous and close interaction. HART research seeks to bring together the best thinking from diverse research communities in order to advance current and anticipated applications of intelligent human-machine collaboration, including the participation of humans as first-class citizens in collaboration with autonomous systems. This would enable autonomous systems not merely to do things for people, but also to work together with people and other systems-the inevitable next leap-forward required in autonomous system design and deployment.']
['--sin autores--', 'CIO for governing innovation in information society - case study: Educating Green ITS at university in Japan', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5397319', "E-Governance, as defined by United nations is \xc3\x82\xc2\xbfthe public sector's use of ICT with the aim of improving information and service delivery, encouraging citizen participation in the decision-making process and making government more accountable, transparent and effective\xc3\x82\xc2\xbf. It can also be described as the process of forming relationships among stakeholders in order to achieve common consensus for education which can lead to increased citizen engagement and participation, strengthening electronic governance. As a case study, the focus point of this research is on the activities of CIOs for ITS specifically on the issue on transformation of an innovative service platform of e-governance for Green ITS education under the Information/Eco-mobility Society. I conclude that core competencies in CIOs for Green ITS are of prime importance to the development of innovative solutions in various levels of ITS. There are lots of common issues and activities in implementing both engineering and socio-economic programs, especially for strategic plans and contents of services and applications prepared for Green ITS. As innovative CIO, ITS as e-gov public policy for reducing pollution, traffic jam and accidents is very important sector."]
['--sin autores--', 'Big data framework for national E-governance plan', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6756283', 'The world is moving towards digitization. In India central and state governments are steadily moving towards digitizing all the government departments, scheme and services. Due to the awareness of people and availability of network access that emerges, use of E-governance application has increased. As a result data is getting added and size of these data is increasing exponentially day after day - Volume. Semi-structured and Un-structured data from E-governance service like computerization of land records, Patient health records are most often in the form of electronic records. Processing and sharing of these records are difficult by traditional approach - Variety. Defense, crime and police service control the ever-increasing threats of terror attacks and of continually ascending crime graphs. It includes aspects such as creation of- and sharing of- crime-relate real time data - Velocity. Gathering and processing of vast amounts of data is not new. What is new is the speed at which one can process that data and extracting actionable business intelligence or mission critical from messy data - Complexity. Open source big data technology - No-SQL databases, Hadoop and MapReduce are used to handle these large volumes and heterogeneous data. In this paper we present the model that illustrates how big data can result in the transformation of the government by increased efficiency and effectiveness in the e-governance service with citizen engagement in decision making.']
['--sin autores--', 'Developing a Smart City Model that Ensures the Optimum Utilization of Existing Resources in Cities of All Sizes', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6603502', "The concept of Smart Cities is currently gaining high popularity among city authorities around the world while attracting leading companies to collaborate with government bodies as it is now moving from pilot projects and towards creating high business value. Though the existing literature provides evidence for various attempts made in defining the term Smart City and in developing models for the realization of Smart Cities, they are largely focusing on heavily digitized cities with well-established infrastructure. Therefore this paper attempts to address the unattended need of developing a Smart City model that could equally be applied to small and emerging cities especially in developing countries, with the aim of optimizing the utilization of existing city resources. Maslow's hierarchy of needs serves as the base on which the model is developed and the associated cyclic behavior is due to the emphasis placed on the participation of citizens in city governance through their feedback which is further inspired by the advent of new technologies including web 2.0 technologies. Universal design is integrated to the model further making the cities accessible and livable for all."]
['--sin autores--', 'India focus [Power Cop 15 India]', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5383191', 'The latest in our series of reports from the emerging countries that will be vital to achieving an agreement at the climate change conference in Copenhagen. India is tackling climate change with the National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC). The stated objective of this policy is to establish an effective, cooperative and equitable global approach based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and relative capabilities; to identify measures that promote development objectives while yielding co-benefits for climate change. The plan was developed by a special council appointed by the Prime Minister in 2007. The Council includes ministers, government officials, scientists, civil society and business, but has met infrequently. As of 2009, strategies to advance the eight missions identified in the plan are being developed by ministries, agencies and consultants. The need for further stakeholder engagement has been recognised. Many programmes in the NAPCC have been underway for some time, but it is not always clear how the plan will build or expand on these existing programmes. The council are also proposing to revisit many difficult or stalled policy and regulatory reform processes. However, proposed programmes to significantly expand solar power are new; energy efficiency mission implementation involves significant new programmes.']
['--sin autores--', 'Identification and prioritization of stakeholders in the planning process of sustainable development of the smart city', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7397229', "The article analyzes stakeholders in the city, conducted in order to identify organisations of particular value to the creation and delivery of the sustainable energy policy for smart cities i.e. enhanced Sustainable Energy Action Plan (SEAP). Using the information gathered in the stakeholder analysis, Riga, the capital of Republic of Latvia, has created a stakeholder engagement plan to gather and coordinate the key stakeholders' resources and knowledge for the benefit of the city, and for the development, implementation, monitoring and ongoing revision of the energy policy for the smart city i.e. SEAP. Different approaches to stakeholder communication and engagement planning have been used, based on specific city context, including history of engagement and current plans and ambitions. Riga stakeholders have been identified and prioritised using a matrix tool, allowing stakeholders to be grouped according to their importance for the enhanced SEAP and level of interest or engagement in the city. Riga has completed public consultation roundtables on its enhanced SEAP. Key stakeholders and their groups that have been identified include academia, local and regional administrations, industry and commerce, finance, energy suppliers and citizens. Riga working to engage all relevant stakeholder groups to help them move towards smart city status - including information and communication technology (ICT) partners, innovation bodies and international companies - in the process of developing and implementing the enhanced SEAP. As a result the city is making connections between players of energy, transport and ICT and increasing their role in CO2 emissions' reduction, and recognising opportunities of cross-sectoral actions and transfer of the best practice projects in synchrony with relevant local stakeholders, international companies and banks to roll out innovative sustainable energy solutions at a scale. Gaps in current stakeholder communication have also been identified,- including insufficient recognition of job creation potential by engaging employment agencies, closer engagement with the transport sector companies, ensuring sufficient citizens' engagement, and building on existing relationships with ICT players. Riga has developed communication tools and stakeholder engagement plan based on analysis of the know-how and resources held by each of the stakeholders or their groups and their role in, and potential impact on the SEAP. With increasingly limited local authority resources for communication with stakeholders, usual methods and channels, based on ICT including newsletters, and emails, social media, have been prioritised in order to secure information flow and feedback from stakeholders."]
['--sin autores--', 'Gaming for (Citizen) Science: Exploring Motivation and Data Quality in the Context of Crowdsourced Science through the Design and Evaluation of a Social-Computational System', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6130727', 'Citizen Sort, currently under development, is a web-based social-computational system designed to support a citizen science task, the taxonomic classification of various insect, animal, and plant species. In addition to supporting this natural science objective, the Citizen Sort platform will also support information science research goals on motivation for participation in social-computation and citizen science. In particular, this research program addresses the use of games to motivate participation in social-computational citizen science, and explores the effects of system design on motivation and data quality. A design science approach, where IT artifacts are developed to solve problems and answer research questions is described. Research questions, progress on Citizen Sort planning and implementation, and key challenges are discussed.']
['--sin autores--', 'E-Catalunya Experience Report (July 2009)', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5368434', "This article describes the experience related with the e-Catalunya platform, a social network and Web 2.0 collaborative environment developed in Catalonia (Spain) in order to improve the transparency of administration and government and to increase participation of citizens. The platform is being continuously improved, offering a set of collaboration tools and a powerful administration environment that makes it easy to configure to suit the different collectives' needs. The e-Catalunya platform is a key element in the strategy of the Catalan government towards providing Web 2.0 based services and to boost communities of practice."]
['--sin autores--', 'eGovernment Ontologies: Social Participation in Building and Evolution', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5428280', 'eGovernment has the aim of developing computer-based solutions to support the interaction of citizens with the public institutions and, more in general, to improve their participation in the public and social life. Semantic technologies, used to develop advanced eGovernment solutions, require eGovernment ontologies. The latter, to be effective, must be built within a participative, social process. Such a socially participative method must be adopted also in later phases, when the ontology needs to be periodically updated and maintained. In this paper we present the SOBE (Social Ontology Building and Evolution) Methodology, based on a clearly defined social process, with clearly defined intermediate steps, actors and roles, and outcomes produced.']
['--sin autores--', 'Political Participation and Democracy in the Information Age: Effects of ICT-Based Communication Forms between the Authorities and the Citizens on Traditional Channels of Participation and Democracy', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4782849', 'The main trends concerning the traditional channels of participation are reduced voting turnout, reduced participation in political parties, stable participation in associations and increased citizen contact. The influence of ICT based form of communication on the relations between the authorities and the citizens are heavily influenced by the role of the citizens designed by the authorities. If the citizens are treated as customers the authorities are pursuing a consultative model focusing on creating an effective administration. The flow of information is unilinear; however, if the role of the citizens is a citizenpsilas role the administrative system pursue a participatory model. The information society produces frames of actions for the society, yet it is the role planned for the citizens that create the opportunities for E-Democracy. Based on these interaction models we assume effects on turnout in elections and on citizenspsila role and activity in traditional channels. This paper is a theoretical contribution.']
['--sin autores--', "Enhancing citizens'environmental awareness through the use of a mobile and pervasive urban computing system supporting smart transportation", 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7011163', 'This paper investigates the potential of mobile communication systems to support informal learning about the concept of sustainability within the urban realm. Firstly, it outlines a brief overview of the design approaches followed in various implementations in terms of communicating and educating citizens over environmental issues, as well as the methodologies employed to achieve user engagement. Furthermore, the paper presents the design and evaluation of an application that sought to promote a more environmentally conscious urban mobility paradigm, via the provision of advanced transportation services in a Smart City context.']
['--sin autores--', 'A case study of service learning and civic engagement for mechatronics engineering students through a course project', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6547381', 'This paper presents a case study of integrating a service learning project into an undergraduate Mechatronics engineering course titled \xe2\x80\x9cBuilding Automation\xe2\x80\x9d for the first time at the Hashemite University in Jordan. The project requires students to visit hospitals to learn about a variety of building systems that they have come across during their course lectures. After grasping the operating principles of building systems available in hospitals, students are required to brainstorm and suggest innovative ideas on how to reduce energy consumption based on tips and hints provided by the instructor and specialized consultants in the field of energy. Students achievement in this project was obtained, through their academic supervisor, their energy consultants, their community partners (hospital personnel), and students reflection on their experience. This paper presents qualitative analysis of integrating service learning and civic engagement in this course, explained the benefits, challenges, and recommendations for future implementation.']
['--sin autores--', 'DDNM: Monitoring Environment Noise Using Smart Phones', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6657926', "Noise pollution affects human health in urban areas. A noise map facilitates monitoring of environmental noise pollution. It can promote citizens' awareness of noise pollution, and aid in the planning of urban area. However, state-of-the-art techniques for rendering noise maps by special equipment are expensive in urban areas. In this paper, we present the design, implementation and preliminary testing results of an environment noise monitoring system called DDNM (Day Day Noise Monitor). DDNM is based on smart phones and the public participation, can be leveraged to create an open and inexpensive platform for rendering up-to-date noise maps. We implement DDNM on HTC g18 8G smart phones and Huawei C8812E 4G smart phones. The outdoor experiments demonstrate that DDNM is a feasible platform to assess noise pollution and provide an accurate noise map for the public."]
['--sin autores--', 'Methodology for developing ICT based course material for children with a developmental disability based on EPISODE', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7281982', 'Education curricula for children with developmental disabilities have attempted to include information and communication technology (ICT) teaching materials. However, such children demonstrate individual differences at the developmental stage of their cognitive faculties. Thus, it is difficult to adopt commercially available ICT teaching materials when working with them. In this study, we introduce the concept of inclusive design in the implementation of ICT teaching materials for children with developmental disabilities. Inclusive design allows for the participation of the elderly as well as those with disabilities at the early stages of development and can be used to identify special needs associated with the development. In addition to ICT teaching materials, the use of Extreme Programming Method for Innovative Software Based on Systems Design (EPISODE), which has agile development and innovation techniques at its core, has been proposed. Therefore, in this study, we attempt to develop a method comprising inclusive design and EPISODE to develop ICT teaching materials. Finally, we report on the practice of developing ICT teaching materials for children with developmental disabilities.']
['--sin autores--', "Conceptual model of citizen's intention associated to e-government and internet behavior: Why do Bandung citizens follow the Mayor's social media?", 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7231447', "Electronic government (e-government) has begun to supplement, replace and restructure conventional system for public services delivering process. Basically, the success of the e-government implementation is depending on the government support and high willingness of citizens to accept then adopt it. User of e-government can obtain benefits such as better access to information, efficiency, citizen participation, reducing cost, accountability and transparency value in delivering public services. In actualizing citizen participation, government can create social media technologies that facilitate two direction dialogue and conversation timeless. For instance, mayor of Bandung city, Ridwan Kamil, who active in social networking sites (SNS) such as Facebook, Twitter, Youtube and Instagram to report and capture what he and his government adjust based on determined programs. Large Bandung citizens follow and enjoy his status, report and photos on social media then become an important factor that influence their intent to use the social media as the main resource to get the government's report. Their intentions then create a behavior to participate on e-government. This way became a breakthrough initiative in attempting an open government as the form of services process in public. Research discuss regarding on citizen participation related to member government social media based on user perspective is rarely. Therefore, this research is conceptual model which aims to present what the factors of Bandung citizen's intention to follow the Mayor's social media. In crafting model, this research adopted Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) approach as nearest theory regards on intention and behavior on technology using (include social media using behavior). This research used descriptive method by analyzing secondary data then proposes factors to present a complete model. This research is expected the basis for future research confirms the model by doing empirical study directly - o Bandung citizens in term of the social media using behavior."]
['--sin autores--', 'e-Consultation: Automatic system for online consultations', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7231215', 'Global ICT services give the opportunity to construct communication platform for online consultations where ordinary citizens, different civic and business associations and executive bodies could contribute by exchanging information using communication network. Initiated by governing institutions or government bodies and non-state actors online consultations differ in goals, approaches, range of target groups, scope of topics and in the use of technical tools. The benefits are clearly recognized, for example online consultations promote the central regulatory objectives by providing the regulator with valuable input from industry members and other stakeholders and help to maintain a transparent regulatory environment. Public consultations therefore help regulators to make knowledgeable decisions. However, current online consultation practice in global area falls short of the potential. Coordination of the online consultation service by common, general purpose tools causes excessive wait times for answers, inefficient communication between experts, limited visibility of document sections and related information, which cause decreased access to public consultations, insufficient number of responses and in general weak participation level. We propose the model of automatic platform for online consultations. Proposed model cover all stages and relevant elements of public consultation procedures. The model is realized as network service and covers complete public consultation life cycle, i.e. starting the discussion, entering associated documents, amendments and comments, section analysis, decision-making and archiving. Novelty of the model presents core implementation in the form three-dimensional state matrix that covers consultation life cycle, time constraints, groupings, section segmentation, amendments association, etc. Commercial version of this model is deployed in Croatian regulatory authority for network industries.']
['--sin autores--', 'Supporting citizen-centered care for seniors - experiences from two Swedish research projects', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6266377', 'The development of information and communication technology (ICT) for citizen-centered care requires insight into concrete problems in care processes as well as an understanding of the goals and values that should guide these. In this retrospective study we return to results from two research projects focusing on the needs of senior citizens and stroke patients. We describe the intersections between health care services, social care services and private services, and analyze these with focus on the needs of independence, continuity and participation. The current state of ICT in relation to the identified needs is also addressed. In conclusion, an increasing number of solutions are available to support senior citizens in different parts of their lives, yet they remain isolated and have limited impact. In order to harness value for senior citizens, it is imperative to continue with multidisciplinary research focusing on socio-technical aspects; addressing technological, organizational, legal and business-related aspects.']
['--sin autores--', 'Role of Information Systems Architecture in e-governance: The case of watershed management in India', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5746103', 'India is basically an agrarian economy having more dependency on rain-fed agriculture practices. Infrastructures like watershed structures are therefore, important components in the overall planning process. Watershed management through an appropriate governance structure with active participation from all stakeholders for sustainable use of resources has been an issue before planners. Indian rural development scenario has always remained a challenge having various political, administrative and social dimensions in the overall spectrum of governance. However, NeGP and UIDAI have created an opportunity to have \xe2\x80\x9cconvergence\xe2\x80\x9d of various services. Studying convergence is a complex phenomenon and needs a careful \xe2\x80\x9carchitectural treatment\xe2\x80\x9d. This paper considers watershed management to be an ideal case for architectural treatment with respect to NeGP having focus on citizen interfaces through e-governance. The paper takes inputs from guidelines formulated for the \xe2\x80\x9cWatershed Management\xe2\x80\x9d, an open document for the study through a framework.']
['--sin autores--', 'ICT for Governance and Policy Modelling: Research Challenges and Future Prospects in Europe', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6149314', 'As the role of government in the society is undergoing continuous change, consensus is starting to build around the potential that collaborative technologies have in the field of governance and policy modeling. For effective citizen empowerment and participation to become mainstream, at a greater scale, several challenges will have to be faced, which will require new tools to be developed. The research questions underlying the present paper are: which new ICT-enabled governance models and methods of monitoring, interaction, collaboration for policy making and enforcement are emerging, and which policy modelling mechanisms can be implemented in order to effectively involve citizens in decision making? The paper starts addressing these issues by defining the problem statement and discussing the changing role of the government in the Information Society, also proposing some elements for a conceptualisation of ICT for governance and policy modelling. It further presents the evolving debate on the e-Government and e-Governance agenda developments, as well as the state of the art and the limitations of research in these fields. Main emerging trends and future prospects within the evolving public sector are then anticipated in order to draw some preliminary conclusions outlining the challenges ahead and future research in the field of ICT for governance and policy modelling.']
['--sin autores--', 'Ethical concerns of twitter use for collective crisis response', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5928746', 'Previous research on disasters and crises has shown that, in some cases, citizens from affected communities collectively participate in emergency response. Social media technologies now provide local and even non-local citizens an additional means for collective response. By using social media technologies, including Twitter, distributed citizens can generate and disseminate their own crisis-related information to a wide audience bypassing official communications. Researchers have found that citizens use Twitter for information production, broadcasting, brokering, and organization during violent crises [1-2] and natural disasters [3-6]. Although the information behaviors have been analyzed, ethical considerations have yet to be addressed. The dissertation research will focus on the citizen use of Twitter in response to violent crises and the associated ethical concerns of this participation. The dissertation proposal is only in the beginning stage of development. Therefore, this extended abstract only represents preliminary ideas.']
['--sin autores--', 'On the (in)effectiveness of the Share/Tweet button: A study in the context of idea management for civic participation', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7412631', 'The authors study the practice of promoting idea campaigns in social networks via the well-known Share/Tweet button. They analyze data about 53 civic participation initiatives collected from IdeaScale, one of the leading online idea management platforms today, and unveil a considerable misconception about the effectiveness of the practice. The article highlights open challenges and suggests a set of alternative techniques to leverage on the ideation capacity of social networks.']
['--sin autores--', 'Introduction to the Transformational Government Minitrack', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6758881', "Initially, e-Government was considered a solely technical phenomenon. However, in the last few years, research on this topic clearly showed its multidimensional nature and identified the importance of acknowledging strategic, political, managerial, organizational, and external relationship factors to understand and explain the transformation of government enabled by Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs). This mini-track examines the complexity of effectively managing e-Government and its transformational potential. Increasingly, this involves inter-organizational collaboration and the management of relationships with citizens, businesses, and other stakeholders. Transformational government is a rapidly evolving concept focused on ICT-enabled fundamental changes in the structure, functions, processes, and external relationships of government. Although the meaning of transformed government is still unclear, practical examples of transformational government involve innovative forms of public service provision through a variety of digital channels, new forms of back-office integration and joint-up government, digital engagement using social media, and new forms of open government and open public data. The aims for governments around the world to achieve transformational government are multiple and varied: they include increased efficiency, enhanced effectiveness, better coordination across government, good governance through increased transparency and accountability, increased citizen trust or even empowerment, improved public decision-making, and modernizing government. This mini-track is one of the key international platforms at which the transformational aspects of e-Government, as well as their implications for government, citizens and society, are being discussed from a multidisciplinary perspective. It welcomes papers with an empirical, theoretical, or conceptual contribution that show the importance of strategic, political, institutional, managerial,- organizational, and democratic factors in managing transformational e-Government. This year's mini-track attracted seven paper submissions from which three were selected for presentation at the conference."]
['--sin autores--', 'Work in progress - STAIRSTEP - a program for expanding the student pipeline', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5350566', "This paper introduces Lamar University's Students Advancing through Involvement in Research Student Talent Expansion Program (STAIRSTEP), which is designed to increase the number of U. S. citizens receiving undergraduate degrees in science disciplines including computing, mathematics, physics, chemistry, geology and earth science. STAIRSTEP uses the experience gathered from two successful programs in computer science for student retention and recruiting of women and underrepresented minorities at Lamar University. STAIRSTEP expands these efforts by including several science disciplines and addressing a broader population of talented `at risk' students. STAIRSTEP adopts recognized strategies from the literature for increasing participation in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). It is innovative in the way it puts this research into practice. This paper describes the STAIRSTEP approach, its expected results, evaluation plan, and current status."]
['--sin autores--', 'Introduction to Open Government and Participation Minitrack', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6480065', 'Open government is an approach that purposefully emphasizes and re-invigorates the basic principle of a "government of the people, for the people, and by the people". As e-Government becomes more ubiquitous, many questions arise about the development and maintenance of open and transparent government, citizen engagement in participatory government, notions of governance through transparency initiatives, co-design of open and collaborative government, and how governments and governmental institutions might be influenced through open government and transparency efforts. This year the Open Government and Participation minitrack includes six papers that reflect considerable geographical and methodological diversity.']
['--sin autores--', 'Experiences in Creating Inclusive Information and Communications Technologies (IICT): Democratizing Software Development in Social Development', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6597847', "Crowd sourcing, citizen journalism and social networks are Information and Communications Technologies (ICT) that have ushered in civil society's participation in the ICT equation. However, the participation of civil society has been limited to creating content and, to some extent, capturing data about events around the community. An area that has been neglected is the inclusion of these new players in the software development life cycle. Democratizing software development by including civil society in the software development life cycle will increase the variety of software applications and generate more buy-in of applications that improve livelihoods. Such an approach will lead to the emergence of Inclusive Information and Communication Technologies (IICT). The challenges that arise when developing IICTs include, inter alia, ownership of IICT, computer illiteracy of beneficiary communities, balkanized nature of communities in place and the well-known challenge of the communication gap between software developers and user communities. My approach to addressing these challenges was to develop the Integrated Development Spatial Planning Framework (IDSPF), a systems development methodology that seeks to demystify software development for grassroots communities by using participatory techniques that are familiar to stakeholders who implement socio economic development projects."]
['--sin autores--', 'Data Sensing and Dissemination Framework for Smart Cities', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6775064', "Participatory sensing, which enables citizens to collect and share data, can be helpful to design and develop useful applications in the domain of environmental monitoring, transportation, and health-care. However, the data collection process for such applications involves dealing with a variety of data sources, ranging from fixed environmental sensors to mobile human sensors, generating and presenting data in different formats. The citizens' engagement in sensing campaigns creates additional requirements to take care of their privacy concerns and motivate them to share data. Applications also need to compute the trustworthiness of the source of information to ensure the high quality of the collected data. Consequently, successfully dealing with these issues and deploying an application in an urban environment becomes a challenging task. In this paper we present a framework that uses fixed and participatory sensing to collect data from heterogeneous sources and presents a uniform interface to disseminate data to concerned applications according to their data requirements. We used our framework to develop a participatory sensing based smart phone application enabling and motivating the citizens to report positive and negative urban environmental behaviours. We report the results of our ongoing field trial. One of our findings is that different users contribute information about different environmental issues with different intensity. Moreover, we find that the current user participation to collect and share data follows the power law."]
['--sin autores--', 'SPLASSH (Student Programs Like Aquatic Science Sampling Headquarters) http://splassh.meteor.com a socially driven platform about water', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6741344', "Student Programs Like Aquatic Science Sampling Headquarters (SPLASSH) is a social network for investigating, sharing, and visualizing data involving water. SPLASSH is designed around the Meteor.js web framework, which builds upon Comet technology to push, or deliver content from the server to end-users for real-time interaction. SPLASSH first presented viewers with a parallax scrolling page with information about the project's mission. The second phase of SPLASSH plans to engage users by prompting them to share how they are using water. For example, users will post short status updates regarding their interaction with water, whether they are boating, swimming, fishing, or exploring. After the initial rollout, the third phase of SPLASSH will target two audiences, people curious about water and students and citizen scientists involved in water studies who are interested in sharing their data. SPLASSH will allow general users, students, and citizens to produce, consume, and visualize data while being recognized for their participation through gamification. The various forms of data postings will disseminate findings, network interested parties, and track trends in water use and information."]
['--sin autores--', 'Urban Civics: An IoT middleware for democratizing crowdsensed data in smart societies', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7325081', 'While the design of smart city ICT systems of today is still largely focused on (and therefore limited to) passive sensing, the emergence of mobile crowd-sensing calls for more active citizen engagement in not only understanding but also shaping of our societies. The Urban Civics Internet of Things (IoT) middleware enables such involvement while effectively closing several feedback loops by including citizens in the decision-making process thus leading to smarter and healthier societies. We present our initial design and planned experimental evaluation of city-scale architecture components where data assimilation, actuation and citizen engagement are key enablers toward democratization of urban data, longer-term transparency, and accountability of urban development policies. All of these are building blocks of smart cities and societies.']
['--sin autores--', 'Hybrid Cemetery Culture: Making Death Matter in Cultural Heritage Using Smart Mobile Technologies', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7433249', 'This paper discusses the urban cemetery as a site of intangible cultural practices and ubiquitous computing as an approach to enhance heritage sites. The paper introduces an experience assessment tool as a mobile phone application that audio-visually augments a heritage interpretation programme, using a contemporary Danish urban cemetery as case. It discusses a number of emerging digital platforms for mourning, heritage and online remembrance that influence the use of the urban cemetery today, and show the potentials of learning and experience from tethering burial sites with augmented mobile mediations of historic heritage information and cultural practices of remembrance. The paper concludes, that an augmentation of the urban cemetery culture points to a high significance amongst citizens, and that experience design through mobile technologies promises an enhanced meaning in an often overlooked urban site. Due to the sensitive subject matter of death and mourning, the participation of the public in general faces challenges that need attention when planning a cultural heritage programme.']
['--sin autores--', 'E-consultations in Croatian central government', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6859815', 'So far citizen consultations and participation in policy-making has been mostly the feature of local governments and local administrations. This paper aims to explore the usage of public participation in policy making via e-consultations with interested public in central government, namely in two Croatian ministries - Ministry of Science, Education and Sport (MoSES) and MInistry of Culture. This topic is mainly related to the problems of accountability and transparency, but also citizen cynicism and digital divide. Moving beyond this general approach, there is an underlying issue of defining and measuring accountability and establishing the role of e-consultations in the strengthening of accountability principle and framework within governmental organisations. The main problems analysed are the creation of curricula in elementary and secondary school in MoSES and policy-making concerning mainly the distribution of subsidies (establishment of public cultural needs), theaters, and electronic media in the Ministry of Culture. The paper explores the type of comment left on the web sites of those ministries, their quality and general tone, by the means of content analysis, but also the type of organisation and/or inndividual leaving the comment in order to assess the motivation and impact of the coment. On the other hand, it explores and analyses the structures enabling accountability and transparency in those ministries in order to establish the role and potential of e-consultations in strengthening them and possible improvements of e-consultation methodology and practice.']
['--sin autores--', 'A Cloud-Based Architecture for Citizen Services in Smart Cities', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6424966', "With continuous increase in urban population, the need to plan and implement smart cities based solutions for better urban governance is becoming more evident. These solutions are driven, on the one hand, by innovations in ICT and, on the other hand, to increase the capability and capacity of cities to mitigate environmental, social inclusion, economic growth and sustainable development challenges. In this respect, citizens' science or public participation provides a key input for informed and intelligent planning decision and policy making. However, the challenge here is to facilitate public in acquiring the right contextual information in order to be more productive, innovative and be able to make appropriate decisions which impact on their well being, in particular, and economic and environmental sustainability in general. Such a challenge requires contemporary ICT solutions, such as using Cloud computing, capable of storing and processing significant amount of data and produce intelligent contextual information. However, processing and visualising contextual information in a Cloud environment is not straightforward due to user profiling and contextual segregation of data that could be used in different applications of a smart city. In this regard, we present a Cloud-based architecture for context-aware citizen services for smart cities and walkthrough it using a hypothetical case study."]
['--sin autores--', 'The diverse stakeholder roles to involve in standardization of emerging and future self-managing networks', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6162522', 'This paper discusses some of the key points related to Standardization that need to be noted and discussed in the wide ICT community, to help understand the implication and impact of emerging and future network technologies on the various stakeholders of the global ICT ecosystems. The implication of emerging and future network technologies is that it is now the time to involve every key stakeholder in shaping, reviewing and contributing to the evolution of standards as well as the processes involved in making standards. The success to attaining quality and stability of emerging and future standards hinges on the engagements of the various key stakeholders and roles discussed in this paper. This paper is aimed at helping various stakeholders identify where they fit in the changing landscape of standardization, and promoting further discussions and debates along the topic, since the necessary discussions are not taking place at the pace expected by the global ICT community. We look at the key aspects requiring continued discussions and consideration so as to help accelerate standards development processes and adoption of standards, to help facilitate innovation and new technologies that dramatically bring about changes to the global economy and improve the lives of citizens across the globe. Therefore, it is very important to understand that Future Network Research directions must be aligned with newly launched activities in standardization of emerging and future network technologies.']
['--sin autores--', 'Breathing smarter: A critical look at representations of air quality sensing data across platforms and publics', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7366185', 'The advent of digital technologies have caused cities to become increasingly connected with and reliant upon mobile, fixed, and remote sensing networks used toward urban planning, commerce, governance, and civic engagement. As sensor devices and sensor data become more ubiquitous over time in urban environments, it will be even more crucial to be critical of how sensor data are represented and how to design for optimal legibility for its intended audience. Air quality data, though relatively accessible and open for cities suffering from severe air pollution like Shanghai, China, and New Delhi, India, still pose problems with regard to representation. Data interfaces for air quality sensor data seem to assume or overlook public literacy in environmental standards, sensor calibration, sensor network resolution, and baseline technical knowledge about sensor devices. This paper examines how air quality sensor data are collected and given form across various projects. It will look closely at city dashboards, open data portals, and project-based data visualizations as well as analyze how meaning might be constructed from these interfaces. Finally, the paper will suggest a preliminary research agenda for further assessing how sensor data are represented to publics as cities increasingly rely on sensor networks.']
['--sin autores--', 'Teaching Climate Change through blended learning: A case study in a private secondary school in Mauritius', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7374179', "Teaching Climate Change's concepts are hard and challenging to impress in the minds of adolescent learners in a traditional classroom environment. Designing appropriate instructional strategies with the best visual experiences enable learners to grasp the complex principle behind the concept and stimulate their interest. Hence, technology can be seen as a panacea. In this regard, a study was conducted to explore Form II learners' view on learning Climate Change with blended learning approach. The theoretical context of this research is underpinned by socio-constructivism. As methodology, an action research was carried out by implementing an interactive educational software, designed based on learners' requirements. A questionnaire was administered to 30 mixed ability learners from a gender-mixed private secondary school with the aim of collecting their learning experience. An active participation of the learners during the face-to-face session demonstrated that through blended learning, they had a clearer understanding and they appreciated the concept with a larger improvement in learners performance. Hence, this active and constructive learning strategy encouraged collaboration and cooperation, and celebrated the autonomy of the learners. Moreover, learners were motivated to take action and address problems in the community, developing their civic responsibility for sustainable development."]
['--sin autores--', 'Software platform for services in Colombian cities using the Living Labs approach', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6162383', 'Models of innovation and technological development of Colombian cities follow traditional patterns that are not very dynamic. This is reflected in the low participation of users and entrepreneurs in creating new applications and services orientated to citizens. This paper proposes a new software platform, whose architecture serves as basis for promoting urban initiatives led by user communities, private and public companies, and telecommunications operators in Colombian cities. The new platform is called Urb@naLab and it uses the Living Labs approach to create new innovation systems based on Information and Communication Technologies (ICT).']
['--sin autores--', 'Insights from a m-participation prototype in the wild', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7134013', "Developing web-based as well as mobile platforms to encourage citizens to become involved in urban governance and political decision-making processes is becoming increasingly popular amongst municipalities and organisations. However, the vast majority of them either implement a one-way communication between citizens and governance or tends to be more of a consultation process instead of actively integrating citizens in decision-making. Our research aims to strengthen citizens' involvement in governance and encourage a continuous dialogue between municipalities and citizens. To explore the opportunities and impacts of novel mobile participation concepts, we developed a mobile application. This paper reports on two consecutive studies, which evaluate and explore user acceptance of general concepts of our system. Being still in the development phase, we focused on specific features of the prototype. Results of both studies are presented and discussed in relation to opportunities for m-participation tools. The paper concludes with an outline of future work."]
['--sin autores--', 'Understanding social computing participation with visual exploration tools', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5067426', 'The rapid growth of socio-technical systems, social media and social networking websites has raised the importance of understanding the determinants of their success. The pressure to understand success is increased by the shift from playful discretionary applications to mission critical applications in government, business, and civic settings. These include homeland defense, energy sustainability, environmental conservation, disaster response, and community safety. Information visualization tools and statistical methods can both be helpful, but their utility grows when they are well-integrated. This talk will demonstrate novel tools for network evolution and offer a framework for thinking about motivating technology-mediated social participation.']
['--sin autores--', 'Yes Wii can! Using digital games as a rehabilitation platform after stroke - The role of social support', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5174233', "A CVA or stroke is frequently a life changing event for both the person suffering the CVA as well as their immediate family. At Eindhoven University of Technology we focus on facilitating people's continued rehabilitation at home using digital games as a rehabilitation platform. As a first step we have recently conducted a requirements analyses from which we concluded that: (1) social support is critical for patient motivation in order to adhere to the necessary regime of rehabilitation exercises in the chronic phase of CVA, (2) there is a perceived difficulty within the intimate social network around a patient (family, friends) in (re)connecting to the patient, and there is a need to engage in meaningful activities with the patient, (3) technology is not yet available that is specifically designed to support such social engagement with the larger social circle around CVA patients."]
['--sin autores--', 'The view from the other side of smart governance!', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6819934', 'Summary form only given. The different levels of addressing the e-of-things have burgeoned and proliferated in such a way that the exact scale and nature of understanding carried by this e-something has caused a multiple of disarray among not only government entities but among the citizens and every institution that works for social development. This gap of understanding has also increased the impact of any development. Hence the lack of concerted and adopted standards have caused, particularly in societies of developing countries, a widespread of e-democracy, e-participation, e-community, etc. that are of varying levels. One wonders then why in these developing countries which need democracy, collaboration and citizen participation more than all other countries, a dynamic and efficient balance of the politics, socioeconomic development and social societies fail to align into a cohesive power rather than scatter efforts thus minimizing impact and results. I believe a triple helix model to control such forces can be adopted to achieve this end. Certainly political instability and lack of good governance would be difficult to defeat in a short time, but enlisting the true power of e-participation and e-collaboration to transform the majority of the society into a well prepared e-community would quickly develop e-democratic models of operation including e-voting and for that matter \xe2\x80\x9ce-prosperity!\xe2\x80\x9d.']
['--sin autores--', 'Enabling participatory routing using a smart routing platform', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7366180', 'Participatory sensing has been advocated as a decentralized mechanism for getting up-to-date data about a city. However, this leads to data flowing only in one direction, from the citizen to the data collector. We advocate closing the loop, by creating a platform that aggregates participatory data, visualizes it, and provides utility from the data. We argue that this will lead to greater participation, as well as greater interest in various aspects of a city that can be collaboratively mapped.']
['--sin autores--', 'Going Beyond Citizen Data Collection with Mapster: A Mobile+Cloud Real-Time Citizen Science Experiment', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6130723', 'Citizens have always played an important role in emergency management such as urban flooding response. New information and communication technologies such as smart phones and computer-based social networks have great potential to transform the roles of citizens in emergency management. However, current digital citizen science projects are usually limited in three areas: 1) limited one-way citizen participation, 2) no processing and integration of citizens\' reports with other existing infrastructure sensing data, 3) no personalized near-real-time spatiotemporal visualization tools for citizens to instantly view aggregated data to gain updated situational awareness. We developed a Mapster application that specifically addresses these issues. First, we leveraged Twitter\'s geo-referenced tweets functionality to design a customized smart phone application for citizens to report a set of events that have been identified in past urban flooding situations such as "basement flooding" and "powerline down" etc. Second, a Cloud-based semantic streaming data harvesting and processing tool was developed to fetch and process both the Twitter feeds and other infrastructure sensing data such as US National Weather Service\'s radar data. Third, a user can instantly explore the heterogeneous data processed and provided by the Cloud service through a map-based spatiotemporal animation tool on the smart phone to see how all the events evolve before, during, and after a storm. Such a two-way information flow significantly improves citizen participation and their sense of situational awareness. We present our architecture, implementation, and discussion of issues on citizen science data collection platforms, integration of heterogeneous data sources and future work plan.']
['--sin autores--', 'A meta-model for crowdsourcing platforms in Data Collection and Participatory Sensing', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6846883', 'Crowdsourcing is both a new paradigm of collaboration and a new frontier for CSCWD. Since its introduction in 2006, the notion of Crowdsourcing has been the object of a number of studies. Crowdsourcing has a multidisciplinary nature with a huge diversity of applications that encompasses many practices. The concepts that shape crowdsourcing are still under construction and it is difficult to reach a consensus. Based on this scenario, this paper proposes a meta-model which aims to fit generic solutions related to a specific subset of crowdsourcing designed to accomplish a specific task: Data Collection and Participatory Sensing to leverage the engagement of volunteers with Science and Environmental issues.']
['--sin autores--', 'A Mobile Crowdsourcing Platform for Urban Infrastructure Maintenance', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6975489', 'Geospatial mobile applications interact with local and remote hardware to connect various data sources. These applications are currently evolving to include crowd sourcing functionalities, for citizen participation. In this paper we propose the identification, collection and information exchange of smart objects their geographic information, facilitating connectivity and communication between citizens and local organizations, and building interoperable services with data from sensors, smart physical objects and social media. We propose to identify spatial patterns, report object locations to identify problems and improve maintenance strategies of a city. As a validation of this approach, we develop a mobile mapping and data hub platform to visualize, monitor, and assist urban maintenance planning that enables better interaction between citizens of Smart Cities.']
['--sin autores--', 'CrowdOut: A mobile crowdsourcing service for road safety in digital cities', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6815170', "Nowadays cities invest more in their public services, and particularly digital ones, to improve their resident's quality of life and attract more people. Thus, new crowdsourcing services appear and they are based on contributions made by mobile users equipped with smartphones. For example, the respect of the traffic code is essential to ensure citizens' security and welfare in their city. In this paper, we present CrowdOut, a new mobile crowdsourcing service for improving road safety in cities. CrowdOut allows users to report traffic offence they witness in real time and to map them on a city plan. CrowdOut service has been implemented and experiments and demonstrations have been performed in the urban environment of the Grand Nancy, in France. This service allows users appropriating their urban environment with an active participation regarding the collectivity. This service also represents a tool for city administrators to help for decisions and improve their urbanization policy, or to check the impact of their policy in the city environment."]
['--sin autores--', 'A note on democracy and group support systems concepts', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5556704', "This paper tries to show that Group Support Systems techniques and research results provide an adequate framework to develop public participation support systems that go beyond e-voting and aggregation of citizens' preferences. It is however necessary to look into political science and understand what kind of initiatives need to be supported and what requirements they pose. Only then the full potential of Information and Communication Technologies regarding democracy support may be achieved."]
['--sin autores--', 'NASA Innovation Ecosystem: Host to a Government technology innovation network', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6836445', "The NASA Innovation Ecosystem supports discovery, collaboration, and ideation around NASA current and future technology. Innovate. NASA is the virtual platform for citizen scientists to learn about NASA technology, collaborate to rethink these inventions, and shape the discussion around future innovation. The purpose is to strengthen NASA's technology capabilities through actively exposing NASA developed technology to external innovators for open innovation. Innovate.NASA shares out NASA research and inventions on its website, and provides inspiration and insights on innovation via its social media accounts. Participants of Innovate.NASA contribute questions and ideas to identify new uses and reuses for NASA technology, and engage in discussion to promote innovation. Innovate.NASA encompasses a broad community of scientists, technologists, researchers, and entrepreneurs. This paper explores the potential for a Government technology innovation network where technologies are shared across US Agencies and with the public as a central way to innovate around Government technologies. Ultimately through multi Agency participation each does its part to support an environment where innovation thrives and ideas translate into impact for future Government missions, interagency cooperation, cross pollination of technologies, and a place for the public to participate in technology innovation."]
['--sin autores--', 'Participatory Sensing, Privacy, and Trust Management for Interactive Local Government', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6901335', 'Faced with increasing pressure regarding resources and urban infrastructure, local governments implement strategic plans with intentions of improving the quality of life for their citizens. This work explores participatory sensing (PS) and the issues associated with governance in the light of new information-gathering capabilities and technologies. These new technologies directly engage citizens in collecting data and providing contextual insight. The insight gathered has the potential to greatly enhance City Council operations in efficient management. Key hurdles affecting the viability and uptake of PS from different stakeholder perspectives are examined. The aim is to understand whether (or under what conditions) there can be a the mutually-beneficial communication link between citizens and the government when using the emerging technologies. Participants? respective value propositions are considered. Simultaneously community engagement is increased, and city operations are enhanced through a partnership with citizens. The challenges of PS, and associated privacy impacts, are considered through the application lens of noise monitoring (framed by the particular insights and needs of the City of Melbourne). This provides insight on the social impacts of emerging technologies, particularly the issue of privacy infringement and other associated risks and implications. These social impacts are examined not only in light of the individual but also in light of the shared environments. Accordingly, responsibilities and avenues for mitigation are assigned to stakeholders, which includes user awareness factors, policy frameworks, and design-level strategies.']
['--sin autores--', 'The role of mobile volunteered geographic information in urban management', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5567728', "Incredibly rapid growth of cities presents a formidable challenge for urban managers, including how to monitor growth and change across the city and to forecast areas of risk. The Core part of these issues is to collect appropriate, up-to-date and city wide information timely. Volunteered Geographic Information (VGI) is a human side of the sensor revolution. Citizens can act as efficient local \xe2\x80\x9cmicroGI\xe2\x80\x9d generators with the mobile data contribution tools. This author emphasizes the role of VGI in urban management as information provider. The proper data contribution mechanism can enhance the data accuracy and motivate people's enthusiasm. Here, the authors proposed a model, using mobile phones as the platforms to develop personalized and universalized applications with the technologies of mobile cloud computing and context aware computing. Follow this incentive mechanism, citizens' participation in city management will be more easily and voluntarily."]
['--sin autores--', 'From Conservation to Crowdsourcing: A Typology of Citizen Science', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5718708', 'Citizen science is a form of research collaboration involving members of the public in scientific research projects to address real-world problems. Often organized as a virtual collaboration, these projects are a type of open movement, with collective goals addressed through open participation in research tasks. Existing typologies of citizen science projects focus primarily on the structure of participation, paying little attention to the organizational and macrostructural properties that are important to designing and managing effective projects and technologies. By examining a variety of project characteristics, we identified five types-Action, Conservation, Investigation, Virtual, and Education- that differ in primary project goals and the importance of physical environment to participation.']
['--sin autores--', 'Notice of Retraction<BR>Exploration on the multi-cooperative mechanism of public participation on the community during urban renewal', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5775913', "Notice of Retraction<BR><BR>After careful and considered review of the content of this paper by a duly constituted expert committee, this paper has been found to be in violation of IEEE's Publication Principles.<BR><BR>We hereby retract the content of this paper. Reasonable effort should be made to remove all past references to this paper.<BR><BR>The presenting author of this paper has the option to appeal this decision by contacting TPII@ieee.org.<BR><BR>Based on the analysis of a great deal of problems in the public participation during urban renewal, and the enlightenment from the public participation in American planning, the multi-cooperative mechanism of public participation on the community is raised which not only concerns our own special conditions but also learns from successful experience of some western countries. The premise of the innovation is that it will bring out a new institution about public participation planning to guarantee resident's participation right in community. The second innovation will be the way of participation. Every single citizen shall take part in the organization, and then consult all the planning affairs through this organization, instead of consulting individually. Third, the Non-Government Organizations must be established."]
['--sin autores--', 'E-Participation: Incident Mapping Portal for Local Government Units', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7393183', 'The paper promotes the use of ICT for an E-Participation prototype for the Local Government Unit specifically in the Barangay level. E-Participation provides officials and the community interaction to produce information concerning policies and decision making through technological tools. The study incorporates the different types of E-participation namely E-informing, E-Consulting, E-Involving, E-Collaborating and E-Empowerment. The main feature of the system will focus on the application of Incident Mapping. Through this, citizens will be allowed to point areas in the community through a digital map that requires attention from the barangay officials. Social media integration is also included to allow the community receives notifications for every update done by the officials to the website. The paper will focus on the acceptability of the proposed system for Barangay 343 Zone 44 Sampaloc, Manila towards the implementation of the E-Participation Barangay Portal prototype. The system was accessed by the community having a total of 154 respondents using statistical sampling method such as clustering, stratified and fishball sampling. The result of the survey obtained from the respondents in the acceptability of the system shows that it is Highly Acceptable gaining an overall mean of 4.51. This study provides insight into potential improvement for transparencies, communication plan and services. Furthermore, the said innovation may encourage more users to improve fact-based decision making for Local Government Unit. Conducting e-participation in longitudinal research to better understand the different factors affecting the sustainability of active participation is therefore recommended.']
['--sin autores--', 'Service-learning computing courses assist with technology needs in community based organizations serving older adults', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5784226', 'The rapidly exploding aged 60 and over population is expected to comprise 22% of the general population by 2020 and is the same age group which has the greatest digital divide. The senior citizen population in New York is notably higher than the national average. The high tech world that surrounds the older adult population relies on smartphones to servers and being connected to the Internet. The elderly have nothing to relate technology to in their past learning experiences, thus find it difficult to incorporate computing skills into long-term memory. Many senior citizens know they have to learn how to operate a computer because the world will leave them behind. The Internet proves essential to the elderly in not only connecting with family, friends, and lost acquaintances, thus avoiding social isolation, but provides valuable health related information and healthcare options. Moreover, research has shown frequent Internet use by older adults stimulates cognition. Other studies have shown technology enriches daily functions and improves the overall life quality of older adults. Older adults are often not comfortable with the swiftly advancing technology. Many older adults feel computers are intimidating and fear breaking the machine, thus reluctant to learn how to use them. Furthermore, many residents in skilled nursing facilities have hearing, visual, and motor skill impairments making computer utilization an immense challenge. Thus, this aged population that has so much to gain from using a computer for email, web surfing, online shopping, and connecting to the world around them are often unwilling or unable to operate a computer. The core of the research project discussed in this paper is a unique course entitled, Intergenerational Computing. Intergenerational Computing is an undergraduate service-learning course offered within the school of computer science for non-majors in collaboration with nursing faculty. Students enrolled in the course provide technology - - instruction to older adults as part of their service-learning experience. Older adults receive individualized tutoring in a non-threatening learning environment. Student-teachers assist to overcome the computer fears of the elderly while the elderly learn a new set of communication skills, while being mentally challenged. Other computing courses, including Computer Systems and Hardware, as well as Networking Technologies, contain service-learning term projects in the curriculum. Students select to build computer labs, install networks, and distribute refurbished computer equipment to disadvantaged senior citizens. Some students additionally chose to modify traditional mice and develop prototypes of Nintendo Wii\xe2\x84\xa2 remotes to be more accessible to older adults. Other students have installed software and hardware in computer labs, as well as virtually designed housing for a livable community project via Second Life - all specifically for the benefit of senior citizens. This paper presents a research project including objectives, description, assessments, lessons learned, and suggestions for successful replication. Tips for low or no budget training, as well as guidance for integrating service-learning projects into the IT course syllabus will be discussed.']
['--sin autores--', "Towards t-government in Malaysia: Investigation of citizen's willingness to participate in democratic services and information privacy concern", 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6716737', "The concept of t-government was started by the UK Government in 2006 and was construed as the enactment of three perspectives; (i) citizen centricity, (ii) shared service culture and (iii) professionalism. Their aim is to integrate information systems technologies (IST) that enables citizens' participation in the initial stages of policy development and the process of reengineering public services. Malaysia aims to be a developed nation and pushing its public service towards the realization of the t-government. After claiming success with several e-government applications that range from information provision to transactional services, currently it overlooks the essential aspect of the t-government that involves citizens' participation in the early stage of policy development as an exemplary of democratic practice. As a developing nation the existence of the digital gap between urban and rural citizens may hinder future plans for implementing t-government. To support future work towards participatory aspect in t-government we seek to gain some understanding of the needs of Malaysian citizens relating to citizen information privacy and citizens' participatory aspects of t-Government. We conducted a survey on 350 respondents from urban areas of Kuala Lumpur and the state of Selangor and also the rural areas of Selangor. The result of the survey showed a strong concern for personal information privacy and willingness to participate for both urban and rural citizens. The result of this study will be a basis for developing the privacy framework in the t-government."]
['--sin autores--', "Low-cost moored instrumentation for citizens' education and participation in environmental stewardship", 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6608176', 'One goal of the Citclops European project is to approach citizens and improve their understanding of aquatic environmental observations and monitoring for the enhancement of community decision-making and cooperative planning. As a potential solution to estimate water transparency related parameters, a low cost instrument is proposed, integrating quasi-digital optical sensors in the open-hardware Arduino platform.']
['--sin autores--', 'Mix4Crowds - Toward a framework to design crowd collaboration with science', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6580940', 'Citizen Science projects are characterized by mass collaboration of ordinary citizens with scientific research. The advent of new crowdware technologies and the ease of access made possible by the Internet are reshaping the way people and scientific organizations work together. However, the particular nature of this form of collaboration requires a tailored approach that increases the chances of all involved parties meet their expectations and achieve their goals. We propose a conceptual framework to help Citizen Science enterprises in conceiving their crowdsourcing strategy and designing their collaboration systems. It departs from basic principles of traditional marketing models and incorporates the specific requirements of this increasingly popular but also complex form of web-based collaborative work.']
['--sin autores--', 'UDesignIt: Towards social media for community-driven design', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6227089', 'Online social networks are now common place in day-to-day lives. They are also increasingly used to drive social action initiatives, either led by government or communities themselves (e.g., SeeClickFix, LoveLewisham.org, mumsnet). However, such initiatives are mainly used for crowd sourcing community views or coordinating activities. With the changing global economic and political landscape, there is an ever pressing need to engage citizens on a large-scale, not only in consultations about systems that affect them, but also involve them directly in the design of these very systems. In this paper we present the UDesignIt platform that combines social media technologies with software engineering concepts to empower communities to discuss and extract high-level design features. It combines natural language processing, feature modelling and visual overlays in the form of \xe2\x80\x9cimage clouds\xe2\x80\x9d to enable communities and software engineers alike to unlock the knowledge contained in the unstructured and unfiltered content of social media where people discuss social problems and their solutions. By automatically extracting key themes and presenting them in a structured and organised manner in near real-time, the approach drives a shift towards large-scale engagement of community stakeholders for system design.']
['--sin autores--', 'Visually Exploring Social Participation in Encyclopedia of Life', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6542435', 'Social network visualization is useful for understanding the complex structure of collaborative efforts such as citizen science projects. It has been widely accepted by social network analysts for exploring and analyzing networks by visually showing their members, the relationships among them, and their behaviors and attributes. The strength of social network visualization can be increased even further, by incorporating the time dimension of evolving networks. We analyzed the conversation network of a collaborative citizen science web platform called the Encyclopedia of Life using dynamic network visualization methods. This paper shows how the temporal visualization was applied to the social collaboration analysis of EOL and presents the findings. We found that some EOL web site features increased the interactive as well as individual member activities. We also found evidence that EOL curator activities encouraged the activities of other members.']
['--sin autores--', 'eGovernment framework', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6819930', 'The application of information and communication technology is conceived as a chance to amplify the capacity of the citizens to act, strengthen cross-border contacts and relations, and develop an open society with cultural diversity. This seminar systematically reviews and presents the use of web-based services for government, administration, the public, and politics. A process-oriented layer model defines the options of exchange and participation: eAssistance, eProcurement, eService, eContracting, eSettlement, eCollaboration, eDemocracy, and eCommunity. Additional case studies show practical applications for an open information- and knowledge-based society.']
['--sin autores--', 'E-government, politics and Web 2.0', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5488529', "The advent of Web 2.0 has created abundant opportunities for reinventing businesses and governments. Web 2.0, coined by Tim O'Reilly in 2004, is the idea of mutually maximizing collective intelligence and added value for each participant by dynamic information sharing and creation. Accompanied by the Web 2.0 technologies and services have spread around the world at an amazing pace and are used by millions of people every day. Many public service organizations are also adopting Web 2.0 applications as a means of improving their ability to collaborate and serve citizens more effectively. Web 2.0 tools allow governments to develop two-way communication with their citizens. As such, these tools hold the potential for enhancing citizen participation in online government offerings. Blogs, wikis, chat rooms, podcasts, Really Simple Syndication (RSS) and other applications are all part of this process and are tentatively being adopted to accelerate e-Government. These trends also pose big concerns around privacy, security, authenticity, and access that need to be addressed. Government faces cultural challenges as well, including agency hierarchy and accountability issues that need attention. Though it may not be obvious, essentially the road marks in web 2.0 are political: grassroots participation, forging new connections, and empowering from the ground up. The ideal democratic process is participatory and web 2.0 is about democratizing digital technology. From the other end of the spectrum, it may therefore be relevant to ask, if there has been a shift in political use of the internet and digital new media, how do broader the communication of politics and policy making towards web 2.0 impact? Does web 2.0 hinder or help democratic citizenship? This paper attempts to figure out e-government and politics engagement in the context of Web 2.0."]
['--sin autores--', 'Influential Aspects of the Smart City', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7427778', 'Using millions of sensors in everyday objects, smart cities will generate petabytes of data, and it will be delivered to multiple users via networks. Multi-disciplinary inter-operability is essential. We propose system engineering management, with multidisciplinary teams as an effective way to deliver real change. Their goal is to develop intelligent and integrated services through the use of digital technologies and open collaboration. We also caution that the process cannot be entirely planned ahead of time, it must be allowed to evolve. New technology will change the game (where does a 3-D printer fit into a smart city?). Municipal planning means central planning -- not known for its sensitivity to reality. A successful smart city will include lots of feedback mechanisms for the citizenry.']
['--sin autores--', 'Citizen-Based Litter and Marine Debris Data Collection and Mapping', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7106412', "Marine debris and plastic in our oceans is a global issue of increasing concern. However, the monitoring of litter and debris is challenging at the global scale because of disconnected local organizations and the use of paper and pen for documentation. The Marine Debris Tracker mobile app and citizen science program allow for the collection of global standardized data at a scale, speed, and efficiency that wasn't previously possible. The app also serves as an outreach and education tool, with a Web portal that instantly shows the data that users have logged. User engagement through a top tracker competition and social media keeps people interested in the Marine Debris Tracker community. More than 400,000 items have been tracked, with plastic being the most common category noted; maps provide both global and local distribution of data. The Marine Debris Tracker community and dataset continue to grow daily."]
['--sin autores--', 'Technology Enhanced Informal Science Learning and Engagements: A Typology of Activity', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6268171', 'This paper deals with the relationship between technology enhanced learning and the development of ideas about public engagement with the sciences. The paper reviews recent developments in the use of technology to engage publics debates and discussion and with aspects of scientific research enacted through citizen science initiatives. Developments in technology, particularly in mobile technology which have enabled these will be considered. These examples will be compared with a number of case studies where informal learning enabled by technology has indicated the future possibilities for work in this area. Taken together these two strands of activity, engagement and informal learning are described and classified. The paper concludes with a review of the issues arising from the case studies and models of learning applicable to these.']
['--sin autores--', 'Decision to casting a vote: An ordinal regression statistical analysis', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7020646', 'The aim of this paper is to explore on essential factors that influence the decision of eligible voters to cast their vote during the general election if it is conducted as electronic voting (e-voting) in Indonesia. It is Indonesian government plan to implement the electronic voting mechanism as a way to minimize the high cost of conducting general election. Thus, there has been call for research to assess the feasibility to implement such mechanism and identify any factors that influence the level of participation of the eligible voters in this important event. A number of demographic factors were analyze, such as gender, age, working, education and earnings influence. It is believe that the finding of this study will complement any earlier and ongoing study in the domain of privacy protection. A statistical analysis, namely ordinal regression, is used to measure the tendency and direction of the demographic data from citizen towards the social norm items.']
['--sin autores--', 'Consensus indicators of sustainability for urban infrastructure', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5507705', 'This paper is concerned mainly on the integration of different points of view, and bridging the gap between urban infrastructure stakeholders and citizens. First, we defined a large set of indicators of sustainability for urban infrastructure (energy, transport, waste disposal, water resources and wastewater treatment). Due to the complex nature of the sustainability paradigm, we take into consideration two issues, the need to prioritize indicators in order to take better more coherent decisions, and the importance of the feedback mechanism, as an adaptive element that redefines priorities as policies and social engagement takes place. To evaluate both issues, we show four different scenarios, each based on the relative importance given to each key dimension of sustainability: social, economical, environmental and institutional. This approach, we believe is of utmost importance in the determination of public policies, since it is through feedback that law and regulations can better adapt to the circumstances at hand.']
['--sin autores--', "Mobile crowdsourcing older people's opinions to enhance liveability in regional city centres", 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6827675', "With larger numbers of older people living longer, an increasing proportion of the population will require a more supportive and responsive regional city environment. However, regional local governments have neither the resources nor the appropriate tools needed to understand and respond to the infrastructure needs of older persons. As mobile devices such as tablets and phones proliferate, there is an opportunity to use mobile apps to engage older people more effectively with their local government associations in planning the future of their regional city centres. In this paper we discuss the potential of this application for crowdsourcing older people's opinions as a form of community engagement. The application was developed in partnership with the Local Government Association and the partnership of the two regional local governments who participated in our pilot. We begin by describing the architecture of our platform, addressing choices regarding user interface design, modes and models for data capture, and standards guidelines. We then discuss methods we use for analyzing and visualizing the collected data to facilitate better decision making by governments. Lastly, we discuss the results of the field trials of our platform with mobile focus groups comprising senior citizens in two coastal regional cities in New South Wales, and interpret how our findings relate with the planning and development of these towns. Our work is the first step towards the use of mobile technologies to enable large scale data collection that can lead to smarter and more liveable cities for senior citizens."]
['--sin autores--', 'Defining and Measuring Success in Online Citizen Science: A Case Study of Zooniverse Projects', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7106413', 'Although current literature highlights a wide variety of potential citizen science project outcomes, no prior studies have systematically assessed performance against a comprehensive set of criteria. The study reported here is the first to propose a novel framework for assessing citizen science projects against multiple dimensions of success. The authors apply this framework to a sample of projects that form part of the online Zooniverse platform and position these projects against a success matrix that measures both contribution to science and public engagement levels relative to other projects in the sample. Their results indicate that better-performing projects tend to be those that are more established, as well as those in the area of astronomy. Implications for citizen science practitioners include the need to consider the impact of core competencies on project performance, as well as the importance of relationships between the central organization and science teams.']
['--sin autores--', 'Structured Data on the Web', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5474161', 'Summary form only given. Though search on the World-Wide Web has focused mostly on unstructured text, there is an increasing amount of structured data on the Web and growing interest in harnessing such data. Moreover, structured data is starting to play a greater role in many of the social movements enabled by the Web, such as citizen participation in government. The paper describes several current projects at Google whose overall goal is enable people to create and share structured data on the Web and to leverage structured data in Web search. The author describes the system for crawling millions of "deepweb" sites, that offer access to high-quality data through HTML forms and the WebTables and Octopus Systems that leverage structured data in HTML tables and lists on the surface web and enable users to piece together multiple data sets. Finally, Fusion Tables is a recently launched data-management service that lets users create and visualize structured and easily and emphasizes the ability to collaborate with other data owners.']
['--sin autores--', 'Notice of Retraction<BR>Study on the problems and countermeasures during the developing process of electronic democracy in our country', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5882030', "Notice of Retraction<BR><BR>After careful and considered review of the content of this paper by a duly constituted expert committee, this paper has been found to be in violation of IEEE's Publication Principles.<BR><BR>We hereby retract the content of this paper. Reasonable effort should be made to remove all past references to this paper.<BR><BR>The presenting author of this paper has the option to appeal this decision by contacting TPII@ieee.org.<BR><BR>With the research methods such as data-analysis and logical inference, based on the analysis of a series of existing problems during the developing process of electronic democracy such as the lagged construction situation of e-government, the limited number of participants in electronic democracy, the serious phenomenon of group polarization and network force, moreover the technical means and the form of and e-government has been paid more attention by the local government, while collaboration between the departments is ignored, the four aspects of countermeasures of strengthening basic information engineering and construction of e-government, accelerating the government reform, improving the corresponding electronic democratic system and strengthening the construction of cyber law and moral education have been put forward to perfect the electronic democracy and promote civic participation in the paper."]
['--sin autores--', 'Networked Solidarity: An Exploratory Network Perspective on Twitter Activity Related to #illridewithyou', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7427440', 'This study examines the nature of issue-based Twitter response networks using the hashtag "#illridewithyou. This hashtag was a response of solidarity towards Muslims in Australia after a hostage incident that occurred in Sydney in December 2014. A network of 11293 users that used the hashtag #illridewithyou and their tweets were analyzed to examine the nature of engagement at network, ego, and semantic levels. Results show that although the #illridewithyou network has some characteristics of scale free networks, including a high clustering coefficient, low mean geodesic distance, and degree distribution approximating the power law, it lacks a giant connected component, but rather is structured into local clusters. Citizen participation, as indicated by out-degree, was considerably high in the network, and the topics discussed in the Tweets ranged from religion and empathy to globalism, multiculturalism and peace. Participants are globally connected but active in small clusters.']
['--sin autores--', 'Choosing a Path for Governmental Administrative Decision in Netizen Participation', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5302652', 'The development and popularization of network information technology has been promoting network to be one of the most important channels and means of citizen participation and governmental decision-making as well. Under the background of netizen participation, new developing challenges are facing governmental decision-making as new opportunities being brought to it. This paper aims to discuss the choices of governmental administrative decision by taking netizen participation into consideration.']
['--sin autores--', 'Global Youth Connectivity (GYC) - using ICT for peaceful recovery and long-term change', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5426722', 'ICT enables peaceful change in communities affected by conflicts, poverty and injustice. In this demo, we illustrate how young people use multimedia, cell phones and the internet to become global citizens responsible for building secure, productive and just communities at home and around the world. Global Youth Connectivity allows disaffected youth to express thoughts and feelings, while also scaling global citizenship education and civic engagement across borders. Thousands of Middle-Eastern and American youth have exchanged content and discussed online since 2005. Innovations and partnerships should enable Mercy Corps to empower millions more living in extreme vulnerability.']
['--sin autores--', 'Citizen Perspectives on Trust in a Public Online Advanced Traveler Information System', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5718654', 'The role of government in providing services to the citizen has been dramatically transformed with the evolution of the Internet and information and communication technologies. Now, government electronic services must not only be effective in their delivery but must also invoke citizen engagement in order to realize its significant contribution. Previous e-Government research has shown that trust in government electronic services is a critical factor in invoking citizen engagement. This study uses a grounded methods approach to understanding factors that affect citizen attitudes toward an online advanced traveler information system (ATIS) in Minneapolis, MN as elicited from users. Focus group discussions were analyzed to identify patterns that signify trust in e-Government systems. The results of this qualitative study include the elements of trust that are important to citizens using e-Government systems, not only as it applies to the online information systems, but in relation to the physical service that the online service represents.']
['--sin autores--', 'Los Twindignados: The Rise of the Indignados Movement on Twitter', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6406392', "Twitter has already become an important facet of the social Web, allowing users and organizations to share their ideas and subscribe to others' updates. Notably, it has been actively used during political events such as the recent elections in Iran, Spain and the USA, or the uprisings in the Middle East, to the extent that it is claimed that revolutions will be tweeted. However such claims are yet to be empirically established. In this work we study an extensive set of millions of tweets themed around the 2011 regional and local elections in Spain and their accompanying civil unrest. Our analysis shows that mainstream political entities were overshadowed on Twitter by grassroots movements discussing alternative points of view, at both regional and national levels. By tracking temporal trends we discover an explosion of interest in the Spanish protests following the establishment of the first protest camps in Madrid. The subsequent spontaneous setting up of similar camps in almost every town in Spain was widely reported at the time, and our spatial analysis quantitatively attests that the protests were indeed widely discussed in all parts of the country. Our results suggest that online social networks serve more as media for interactive engagement between grassroots peers, rather than as platforms for politicians to attract mass attention."]
['--sin autores--', "The gamer's soul never dies: Review of digital games for an active ageing", 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7170614', "Recently, there has been increasing interest in the way in which a game thinking can encourage an active ageing and lifestyle. Although recent developments in game studies have heightened the potential of games for stimulating cognitive and physical capacities, its impact on the sense of security and participation in society, which are essential variables to characterize active ageing, have been overlook. This fact may be due to the current debate towards the concept of `active ageing.' This paper reports on the state-of-the-art of games designed for an active ageing, discussing the main recommendations for addressing games to the older target group."]
['--sin autores--', 'A concept to empower self-management of psychophysiological wellbeing: Preliminary user study experiences', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5333549', 'In prevention of chronic diseases, health promotion and early interventions based on self-management should be emphasized. Mental health problems and stress cause a significant portion of healthcare costs, and also complicate the management of other chronic conditions. In addition to physical health, psychophysiological and social wellbeing should be equally promoted. Thus, we have previously designed and reported the P4Well or pervasive personal and psychophysiological management of wellness concept for working-age citizens. The concept supports the stress and recovery management on a daily basis through improved health management strategies, and combines psychological methods with personal health technologies. In this paper, we discuss the preliminary user study experiences of ongoing evaluations with two different user groups consisting of: 1) middle-aged men who are using the concept for managing their mental wellbeing or mild depression; and 2) entrepreneurs who are using the concept for coping with stress. Our results provide a preliminary assessment of the role and importance of experts, technologies, and peer-support in the concept.']
['--sin autores--', 'Dealing with cyber security threats: International cooperation, ITU, and WCIT', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7158473', 'The cyber security situation is not as bad as most people think it is - it is worse than most people imagine it could be. Indeed the lack of security of the Internet and of the devices connected to it results in serious vulnerabilities. These vulnerabilities create risks for infrastructures that increasingly rely on the Internet, including not just communications, but also power generation and distribution, air transport, and, in the near future, road transport. It is easy and relatively inexpensive to access cyberspace and to obtain the means of conducting offensive cyber attacks. Thus it is tempting to develop offensive cyber capabilities and indeed some states are doing so - as published in their national cyber security strategies, and several states have allegedly carried out cyber attacks. At the same time, a state is bound to protect its citizens, including against cyber attacks and cyber warfare. This will become increasingly difficult, if not impossible, if current trends continue unchecked. This article argues that international agreements on improving cyber security, and limiting cyber attacks would appear to be necessary and appropriate measures. Yet key developed countries resist taking legally binding measures of that nature, see in particular the discussions and outcome of the 2012 International Telecommunication Union (ITU) World Conference on International Telecommunications (WCIT). On the contrary, some of these countries practice mass surveillance, which some consider to be a threat to citizens and to the security of states, and which some authors have even considered, figuratively, to be a form of cyber war, even if it is inappropriately justified as a means of combating terrorism. And they resist calls to end mass surveillance. This paper argues that the positions taken by key developed countries could have grave negative consequences in the future, in particular for those very countries. The time has come to take steps to prevent this, which in- lude more discussions and engagement in various forums, including ITU.']
['--sin autores--', 'The research on \xe2\x80\x9capplication of the third party policing to social security\xe2\x80\x9d', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5996307', 'This article is aimed at understanding the developing trend of third party crime prevention, which excludes both the police and criminals. This trend works by implementing the advantages of community policing and problem-oriented policing, while referring to the strategies of crime prevention initiative, and strives to integrate new forces from the society, such as civilian engagement or market mechanism, into crime prevention. The above-mentioned police administrative model, which combines the forces of multiple \xe2\x80\x9cthird-parties\xe2\x80\x9d to resolve crime problems, is officially called \xe2\x80\x9cthird-party policing\xe2\x80\x9d. \xe2\x80\x9cThird-party policing\xe2\x80\x9d is a market and community based crime prevention, part of the broader trend of \xe2\x80\x9cdecentralization of policing\xe2\x80\x9d, which means that the police force is shifted from a government controlled institute to a market and community based third party. As the new governing concept supports this shift, including renewal of insurance statistics on criminal concept, and change of perspective towards cautious individuals, we can see many cases of adopting the third-party policing model in security control policies and practical experiences. This article uses the academic concepts of \xe2\x80\x9ccollaborative co-governance of public security\xe2\x80\x9d, \xe2\x80\x9csecurity risks of crime\xe2\x80\x9d, and \xe2\x80\x9cequality of rights and obligations among multiple parties\xe2\x80\x9d to examine how \xe2\x80\x9cthird-party policing\xe2\x80\x9d is used to deal with security control on a practical level in Taiwan. Finally, the article discusses possible obstacles faced while conducting \xe2\x80\x9cthird-party policing\xe2\x80\x9d, as well as what steps should be taken in the future, should the need to use it in the inspection and prevention of crime arise, so as to raise the awareness of government authorities, and allow citizens to take control through participation.']
['--sin autores--', 'Eco-labeling Greek Schools for Energy Efficiency over IPv6', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6377401', "Reducing CO2 emissions in order to address climate change is a difficult challenge but it may also become an opportunity for improving citizens' behaviour towards the protection of the physical environment. Furthermore, as buildings are responsible for a significant portion of total energy consumption and emissions, improving their energy performance is clearly a key factor for accomplishing the EC climate and energy objectives. In this context, the Greek pilot in GEN6, a European Commission funded project, aims to influence the behaviour of the local school communities by raising their energy awareness. As discussed herein, the pilot will provide real-time energy efficiency services over IPv6-enabled grids to the local educational community, providing students with information on their consumption patterns and raising awareness among them on the energy savings that behavioural changes may bring. Consequently, the pilot aims to reduce the participating school buildings' carbon footprint by at least 10% and prove that IPv6 may become an enabling technology for new advanced services. Currently, the installation of IPv6-enabled energy smart meters is in progress at 50+ schools for monitoring energy consumption but also for becoming an educational and social engagement tool for students. The GEN6 pilot, also aligned with the Greek School Network energy innovative programme, is further reinforced by hands-on workshops aiming at engaging students on issues of sustainability and empowering them to make further behavioural energy-saving changes. Results from the competition among the participating school communities are disseminated to the public through various means, such as a web portal, a blog, and social networks, which record the energy efficiency of participating schools and the effect of the actions taken."]
['--sin autores--', 'MOOC for Medical Big Data Research: An Important Role in Hypertension Big Data Research', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7184915', 'Due to limited technical and social resources, many physician practices fall short on accurate blood pressure measurement to carry out large-scale hypertension research projects. The accuracy and standard of data acquisition are very important when data sources are diverse in medical big data research. This paper proposes Massive Online Open Course (MOOC) is appropriate approach to teach volunteers necessary knowledge and skills of blood pressure measurement for hypertension research. It introduces a new citizen science "paradigm" to support big data research such as hypertension. MOOC is a new type online course that provides a combination of short video lectures, frequent comprehension quizzes and active participation in discussion forum. The well-trained data collectors by MOOC will be granted to collect and publish data of hypertension research. The process of medical big data research based on MOOC was introduced.']
['--sin autores--', 'From participatory sensing to Mobile Crowd Sensing', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6815273', 'The research on the efforts of combining human and machine intelligence has a long history. With the development of mobile sensing and mobile Internet techniques, a new sensing paradigm called Mobile Crowd Sensing (MCS), which leverages the power of citizens for large-scale sensing has become popular in recent years. As an evolution of participatory sensing, MCS has two unique features: (1) it involves both implicit and explicit participation; (2) MCS collects data from two user-participant data sources: mobile social networks and mobile sensing. This paper presents the literary history of MCS and its unique issues. A reference framework for MCS systems is also proposed. We further clarify the potential fusion of human and machine intelligence in MCS. Finally, we discuss the future research trends as well as our efforts to MCS.']
['--sin autores--', 'Keeping citizens, companies, and organizations informed by Web KnowARR', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6819926', "For the main part, electronic government (or e-government for short) aims to put digital public services at disposal for citizens, companies, and organizations. To that end, in particular, e-government comprises the application of Information and Communications Technology (ICT) to support government operations and provide better governmental services (Fraga, 2002) as possible with traditional means. Accordingly, e-government services go further as traditional governmental services and aim to fundamentally alter the processes in which public services are generated and delivered, after this manner transforming the entire spectrum of relationships of public bodies with its citizens, businesses and other government agencies (Leitner, 2003). To implement this transformation, one of the most important points is to inform the citizen, business, and/or other government agencies faithfully and in an accessible way. This allows all the partaking participants of governmental affairs for a transition from passive information access to active participation (Palvia and Sharma, 2007). In addition, by a corresponding handling of the participants' data, a personalization towards these participants may even be accomplished. For instance, by creating significant user profiles as a kind of participants' tailored knowledge structures, a better-quality governmental service may be provided (i.e., expressed by individualized governmental services). To create such knowledge structures, thus known information (e.g., a social security number) can be enriched by vague information that may be accurate to a certain degree only. Hence, fuzzy knowledge structures can be generated, which help improve governmental-participants relationship. The Web KnowARR framework (Portmann and Thiessen, 2013; Portmann and Pedrycz, 2014; Portmann and Kaltenrieder, 2014), which I introduce in my presentation, allows just all these participants to be automatically informed about changes of Web content regarding a- respective governmental action. The name Web KnowARR thereby stands for a self-acting entity (i.e. instantiated form the conceptual framework) that knows or apprehends the Web. In this talk, the frameworks respective three main components from artificial intelligence research (i.e. knowledge aggregation, representation, and reasoning), as well as its specific use in electronic government will be briefly introduced and discussed."]
['--sin autores--', 'The Impact of Smartphones on E-Participation', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6480050', 'In the last years social media as well as mobile applications are of growing relevance for public political discussions and therefore for the approach of e-participation. However, studies show that there is still a low degree of involvement of politicians and citizens. Current research regularly focuses on how citizens can be enabled to more effectively share their ideas and opinions regarding political processes. However, the role of politicians themselves is rarely discussed within the academic discussion. In our study we attempt to better understand the impact of the growing diffusion of smartphones among politicians on e-participation. We conducted an online survey and asked members of the German federal parliament about their usage of mobile devices in order to interact with citizens. We show that smartphones lead to an increasing intensity of dialogue between politicians and citizens based on social media. Furthermore, we suggest that the level of e-participation grows by social media and mobile devices.']
['--sin autores--', 'An Exploratory Factor Analysis of Motivations for Participating in Zooniverse, a Collection of Virtual Citizen Science Projects', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6479908', 'Virtual citizen science (VCS) uses technology like the Internet to give volunteers the chance to participate in real scientific research. The success of VCS projects has prompted researchers to understand what motivates volunteer participation. 199 registered users of Zooniverse, a successful collection of VCS projects, completed a web survey assessing various possible motives for their participation. An exploratory factor analysis of their responses suggests a three-factor solution representing motives related to Social Engagement, Interaction with the Website, and Helping. We discuss the place these results have in helping to understand the still emerging picture of the variety of motives associated with various VCS projects and activities.']
['--sin autores--', 'Challenges in participation', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5482250', "Participatory Design (PD) has a strong tradition in professional settings, including e.g. hospitals and nursing homes. As care and rehabilitation practices move, to a greater extent, out of the hospitals and into private homes a new take on PD is needed to facilitate design activities with patients or laypeople as the primary user groups and to design healthcare applications to be used primarily in the home. This paper discusses challenges and possibilities related to the design of home-based healthcare applications and especially the users' possibilities for participation in creative PD activities. Based upon ongoing design-work, related to home-based rehabilitation of elderly suffering from vestibular dysfunction (dizziness), this paper presents lessons learned and initial outcomes related to patient/citizen-focused development of healthcare solutions for private homes. We present initial ideas on how PD can be used to develop pervasive healthcare applications with less resourceful user-groups such as elderly people suffering from illness."]
['--sin autores--', 'Real-time ethics ??? A technology enabled paradigm of everyday ethics in smart cities: Shifting sustainability responsibilities through citizen empowerment', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7439410', 'Conventional sustainable urban development practices are predominantly focused on intervention measures aimed at larger urban stakeholders, providing limited room for citizen engagement. In the emerging context of smart cities, Internet and Communication Technologies (ICT) are becoming technology-enablers of citizen participation towards sustainable urban development targets. This article highlights the opportunity of ICT-enabled citizen-empowerment, based on recent discoveries of behavioral psychology, and raises questions about the accompanying challenges. The aim of such design is to enable citizens to understand their own role in relation to wider sustainability issues, in particular to aid them in decision-making processes. This may result into a transition of increased citizen responsibility that could entail an unprecedented number of daily decisions and ethical trade-offs. To facilitate this transition, the growing stream of ethical considerations in everyday life, "real-time ethics", require a distinct interdisciplinary discussion.']
['--sin autores--', 'What Makes Hyper-local Online Discussion Forums Sustainable?', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7070107', 'Despite the global success enjoyed by a few social media platforms such as Wikipedia and Facebook, many platforms that target geographically bounded communities struggle to sustain users\' participation over time. Understanding what makes such "hyper-local" communities sustainable can lead to better technologies for encouraging community awareness and civic participation. However, little is known about how the social structure of such online communities impacts their sustainability. In this study, we conceptualize sustainability through the aspects of viability and performance. We measure three system-level factors that affect sustainability, including network size, connectedness and centralization, which capture the communities\' social structures. We test our hypotheses on the longitudinal data collected from E-Democracy.org. Our results indicate that network connectedness and centralization are positively associated with performance but not with viability. The findings reveal a system design dilemma for hyper-local forums. We discuss the implications and potential solutions to overcome the sustainability challenge.']
['--sin autores--', 'Trust challenges and issues of e-government: E-tax prospective', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5561596', "This paper discusses trust issues and challenges have been encountered by e-government developers during the process of adoption of online public services. Despite of the apparent benefits as online services' immediacy and saving costs, the rate of adoption of e-government is globally below experts' expectations. A concern about e-government adoption is extended to trust issues which are inhibiting a citizen's acceptance of online public sector services or engagement with e-government initiates. A citizen's decision to use online systems is influenced by their willingness to trust the environment and to the agency is involved. Trust makes citizens comfortable sharing personal information and making online government transaction. Therefore, trust is a significant notion that should be critically investigated in context of different E-Taxation models as part of E-Government initiatives. This research is proposing the implementation of Trusted Platform Module as a solution for achieving the high level of citizens' trust in e-taxation."]
['--sin autores--', 'Towards a typology of social news apps from a Crowd Computing perspective', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6974066', 'The Web is now both an information repository and a cyberspace supported by a participatory culture. In the domain of news and journalism, the Social Web has witnessed the emergence of Social News Websites (SNW), where users contribute for various reasons. Sites like Digg, Reddit and Storify, just to name a few, allow their users to discuss, comment, share, recirculate, tag and rate news from various sources. However, the social computing literature has described these sites so far through narrow definitions, e.g., as a synonym for social news aggregators, as specializations of social media or even as specialized forms of online social networks. In this research, we identify a broader landscape of social applications exploring citizen participation in the news value chain, and propose a broader definition and a typology for social news applications from the perspective of Crowd Computing.']
['--sin autores--', 'Locast Civic Media: Extending Civic Engagement Boundaries through Mobile Media and Hyper-Local Conversations', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6113322', 'Always-on connectivity, video production capabilities, social networking, and location-based services make mobile phones important tools for citizen journalism. Drawing on emerging patterns, our research focuses on transposing global media production and circulation practices to local contexts. Our emphasis is on joining urban conversations with civic knowledge sharing practices to build information-based communities. We present an integrated, ubiquitous, mobile media and geo-social networking platform that proposes tools for open-publication, collaborative-authoring, and production. This framework allows social content dissemination through mobile devices and the web. In this paper, we discuss our recent findings from research on mobile civic media, presenting our design methods, implementation details, and a field study arranged in Porto Alegre (Brazil). Finally, we discuss our insights and future design considerations for platform development.']
['--sin autores--', 'Citizenship education management and world city construction enlightenment to Beijing', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6010926', "Beijing's construction of the world city should be an important goal for capital development. Besides the hardware facilities, the management of citizenship education is the most important part for reaching this goal. Citizenship education is a cause of whole participation, contribution and share and the management accompanies the all process. This paper applies quantitative, qualitative and case study methods to discuss an actual significance, impact factors, economic theory application, service facility management and implications to Beijing. The research conclusions are that there is a stable equilibrium relationship between the citizenship education and the whole education resources; Beijing should regard the world city construction as a work that needs to make great efforts like running the Olympic Games, and regard the citizenship education as a must for the goal realization."]
['--sin autores--', 'Governmeter: A Web application for monitoring governmental activity', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5974199', 'Governmeter is a web application based on the principles of eParticipation and social networks, specifically designed to monitor and discuss, in an objective and independent manner the governance and legislative activity of the Government. Initially, the discussion is essentially based on three aspects: the evolution of the statistical indicators, the objectives set by the government and government measures. This article describes the main features of Governmeter which is believed to substantially contribute to the interest and engagement of citizens in political deliberation.']
['--sin autores--', 'An e-Participation support system for regional communities based on linked open data, classification and clustering', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6311150', 'In this paper, we present an e-Participation Web system for various platforms and mobile phones, based on linked open data, classification and clustering. The system aims at supporting citizen e-Participation in ongoing regional debates by gathering and openly publishing news and opinions from the Web for easy comprehension and commenting. Our study helps us define relevant evaluation criteria for an adequate citizen discussion system in the new context of open government, the Web, and mobile computing. We present the system, O2, and its application citispe@k, as well as its underlying components: ontology structure, classification and clustering. We then conduct a comparison with existing systems and find that our system is a better approach for efficient citizen e-participation when compared to current existing systems.']
['--sin autores--', 'Information Visualization and Organization for Participatory Monitoring of Invasive Alien Species', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5337117', 'The participation of citizen volunteers plays an important role in the control and monitoring of invasive alien species because of its potentially wide spatial and temporal coverage. To support citizen participation, an information system that presents the achievement of activities needs to be developed to enhance the motivation of participants. This challenge was discussed in the context of the capture program started in Hokkaido, Japan in 2006, for invasive alien species, Bombus terrestris, and the this program\'s Website, "SeiyouStatus" (http://dias.tkl.iis.u-tokyo.ac.jp/seiyou/). We start by proposing four types of views for visualizing and organizing capture records, and discuss the usage of the textual data obtained from casual communications between researchers and participants. We then illustrate an example of environment visualization, and demonstrate the importance of warning maps for illuminating high invasion risks and prioritizing actions.']
['--sin autores--', 'eParticipation in Practice in Europe: The Case of "Puzzled by Policy: Helping You Be Part of EU"', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6480067', 'This paper focuses on the case study of "Puzzled by Policy: Helping you be part of EU", a European e-participation project, which studies the needs of concerned citizens, stakeholders and decision makers, and provides a unique platform for users to learn and discuss about policy at the EU and national level, while finding out what particular policies mean to them on the national level so that they can contribute to policy drafting. The findings of our study suggest that the path to successful e-participation should not only involve ICT, but should first incorporate a conceptual model of e-participation, i.e. questions such as how to model the policy to be debated in the democratic process, how to define the public engagement model, what communication model should be used, and what deliberation methods should be addressed.']
['--sin autores--', 'Mobi4D: A next generation service delivery platform for mobile government services: An African perspective', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6145152', 'The proliferation of mobile devices now ubiquitous to virtually everyone in Africa has made it absolutely easy to get across to every user. Innovative ideas have quickly developed around mobile devices as well as technology surrounding it and while the earliest uses were born out of necessity, the current technology is harnessing the power of mobile devices to support and propel citizen engagement in democracy. With its Mobi4D platform project, the CSIR is pioneering the utilization of mobile devices to fully implement mobile government application with the aim of significantly improving the quality of service delivered to the citizens of South Africa. In this paper, we report the current development around the Mobi4D platform and discuss from the view point of opportunities it presents for mobile government. Demos of some of the pilot services being developed on Mobi4D are also presented showing how such platform can help address challenges faced in the government sector.']
['--sin autores--', 'Bridging the Divide in Democratic Engagement: Studying Conversation Patterns in Advantaged and Disadvantaged Communities', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6542437', 'The Internet offers opportunities for informal deliberation, and civic and civil engagement. However, social inequalities have traditionally meant that some communities, where there is a concentration of poverty, are both less likely to exhibit these democratic behaviors and less likely to benefit from any additional boost as a result of technology use. We argue that some new technologies afford opportunities for communication that bridge this divide. Using temporal topic modeling, we compare informal conversational activity that takes place online in communities of high and low poverty. Our analysis is based on data collected through i-Neighbors, a community website that provides neighborhood discussion forums. To test our hypotheses, we designed a novel time series segmentation algorithm that is driven by topic dynamics. We embed an LDA algorithm in a segmentation strategy and develop an approach to compare and contrast the resulting topic models underlying time series segments. We examine the adoption of i-Neighbors by poverty level, and apply our algorithm to six neighborhoods (three economically advantaged and three economically disadvantaged) and evaluate differences in conversations for statistical significance. Our findings suggest that social technologies may afford opportunities for democratic engagement in contexts that are otherwise less likely to support opportunities for deliberation and participatory democracy.']
['--sin autores--', 'Trends in GNSS Italian application scenarios in transportation', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7352256', 'In Italy activities and investments (including the ones of the Italian Space Agency) on transportation safety in the GNSS field are increasing. The road transportation has been the most important focus point, while a strong attention is being devoted to civil aviation, rail transportation and maritime applications. The current Galileo and EGNOS systems, with their future evolutions, give the possibility to exploit all the possible applications related to the navigation field. A specific attention needs to be addressed to the Unmanned Aerial Vehicles, that involve critical elements for civil and commercial use. A final balance of the developed activities in Italy will be discussed in this paper; the roadmap of the future activities will be analyzed correlating both the national and international projects involving the Italian participation. Finally, the priorities of the applications will emphasize the potential fruitful use of new GNSS solutions.']
['--sin autores--', "Discussion of Promoting the Healthy Development of Citizens' Political Participation via Internet", 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5576639', "Citizens' political participation via Internet has now become the important form of citizens' political participation, which not only supplies powerful drive to development of democracy, but also has many shortcomings and faces large risks which are mainly embodied in: Firstly, obvious imbalance exists in citizens' political participants via Internet and their abilities due to the imbalance of Chinese economic and social development, Internet democracy may dissimilate to be \xe2\x80\x9cInternet nobility democracy\xe2\x80\x9d. Secondly, the existence of prevalence of individual liberalism as well as excessive-popularity of citizens' globalization idea in China's society makes the supervision for citizen's political participation via Internet in out of control. Thirdly, information explosion, information crowd and group polarization phenomenon also leads non-rationality, extremity of citizens' political participation via Internet. In view of this, China's government shall firstly be committed to eliminate \xe2\x80\x9cdigital gulf\xe2\x80\x9d, and supplies equal opportunity of political participation via Internet to citizens; meanwhile, China's government shall insist to governing Internet with laws, enhance control and management for Internet information nodes, purify information network space; moreover, government shall actively perfect the systems such government's information issuance on Internet, governmental officials' direct on-line communication with citizens, and strives to form good \xe2\x80\x9cappeal-response\xe2\x80\x9d mechanism of interaction between officials and citizens; finally, government shall further improve citizens' political quality and ethical quality, cultivate citizens' political participation culture, and perfect Internet ethic criterion systems."]
['--sin autores--', 'The Malay Dilemma on organ donation in Malaysia', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6422959', 'Organ donation among the world community today is not a new phenomenon. The noble act of organ donation by donors that at times, has no blood relations has enabled many patients with chronic diseases to earn a second chance in life. The same scenario also takes place in Malaysia in which awareness of organ donation to help parties in need is not new. Many citizen of Malaysia is aware that their contribution gives "new life" to the needy. This little \xe2\x80\x9cscarifies\xe2\x80\x9d indirectly shows that Malaysian people put a high value for the social development in their country. The Malays in Malaysia is the largest ethnic group, but unfortunately, the statistics show that the Malays are the least to sign up for organ donation. Thus, the objective of this study is to identify the causes that prevented them from doing so. This study was conducted by taking into account three factors; religion, awareness, as well as perception or views on organ donation willingness among the Malays. Of the three factors studied, only two significant factors contributed to the main question of why the Malays shy away from organ donation and they are religion and perception. This shows that the Malays are aware that organ donation is a noble practice, but limited perception and knowledge of religion limit their participation. Therefore, it is recommended that a comprehensive discussion among religious leaders in changing the perception and explain the laws of religion on the issue of organ donation is carried out continuously in various mediums so that the awareness of the Malays in organ donation can be fully utilized for the benefit of everyone.']
['--sin autores--', 'Validating UI through UX in the Context of a Mobile - Web Crowdsourcing Disaster Management Application', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7021823', 'A significant role of good user interface design is to enhance user experience. Keywords and icons are heavily used in mobile applications because of the limited screen size and small keypad interface. In creating a mobile based crowdsourcing application to motivate citizens to report disaster events and experiences, use of keywords and icons should be intuitive, have high recall and make reporting accurate. This paper discusses the user validation results of user interface design through user experience measured by intuitiveness, recall, and accuracy. For keywords, results showed that keywords were appropriate however there is a need to include selection of multiple keywords as well as language translated into native tongue. For icons, intuitiveness score were relatively high for most icons. Icons that had low recognition were because of multiple interpretations. Recall scores increased significantly after training. Enhancing user experience using simulation scenarios increased responsiveness but decreased correct submissions. This study shows that engagement increases if simulations depict real scenarios making the system relevant to its intended users.']
['--sin autores--', 'Research Article The Role of Leadership and Contextualization on Citizenship Behaviors in Distributed Teams: A Relational Capital Perspective', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6179567', "Research problem: This study provides insights into the role that a leader plays in improving relational capital, thereby motivating team members' citizenship behaviors in distributed teams. We address the following research questions: (1) What is the role of inspirational leadership in cultivating relational capital (i.e., reciprocity and commitment) in distributed teams? (2) Are team members' citizenship behaviors (i.e., knowledge sharing and interpersonal helping) influenced by relational capital in distributed teams? (3) How does technology support for cognitive and affective contextualization facilitate leaders to improve organizational communication? Literature review: The purpose of the review was to provide a theoretical background for the variables in this study. Based on the relevant theories on relational capital, leadership, organizational citizenship behavior (OCB) and contextualization, this study reviewed how previous studies link these theories to one other, and proposed the positive relationship between leadership, relational capital and OCBs, as well as the moderating relationships of technology support for contextualization. Methodology: The researchers conducted a quantitative survey with 141 respondents in a major university in Asia. The subjects were part-time graduate students pursuing their master's degree. Researchers administrated a paper-based questionnaire along with a cover letter explaining the study's objectives. Responses indicating teams that were situated in only one location and their role as team leaders were removed from the analyses. Participation was completely voluntary. The researchers chose partial least squares to test the hypotheses since it has fewer restrictive assumptions and its ability for analyzing measurement and structural models. Results and discussion: This study highlights the importance of inspirational leaders in cultivating two kinds of relational capital, namely commitment and reciprocity. This study al- o explores the differential values of contextual information from the cognitive and affective dimensions. A key result is that the effect of inspirational leadership on reciprocity is strengthened when there is technology support for cognitive contextualization. At the same time, technology support for affective contextualization has a direct impact on commitment. These findings provide empirical support for affective and cognitive contextualization in distributed organizational communication, and suggest a way for distinguishing between reciprocity and commitment. This study concludes by illustrating the positive effects of commitment on citizenship behaviors, such as knowledge sharing and interpersonal helping. The implication of this study is that when teams are physically dispersed, there should be more emphasis on leadership with inspirational attributes to get their team members to perform beyond standard requirements. In addition, this study provides leaders and organizations with an opportunity to reflect on the appropriate technology that can be adopted to compensate for insufficient communication. The limitation of this study is that each respondent represents his/her working team. As a result, it may introduce bias to the findings. In addition, self-reported measures may also cause common method bias. Future research could consider the addition of objective measures and longitudinal work to reduce the possibility of common method bias, and investigate how work behaviors change over time."]
['--sin autores--', 'Using Socially Assistive Human\xe2\x80\x93Robot Interaction to Motivate Physical Exercise for Older Adults', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6235980', 'In this paper, we present the design, implementation, and user study evaluation of a socially assistive robot (SAR) system designed to engage elderly users in physical exercise aimed at achieving health benefits and improving quality of life. We discuss our design methodology, which incorporates insights from psychology research in the area of intrinsic motivation, and focuses on maintaining engagement through personalized social interaction. We describe two user studies conducted to test the motivation theory in practice with our system. The first study investigated the role of praise and relational discourse in the exercise system by comparing a relational robot coach to a nonrelational robot coach. The second study evaluated participant preferences regarding user choice in the task scenario. Both studies served to evaluate the feasibility and overall effectiveness of the robot exercise system. The results of both studies are presented; they show a strong user preference for the relational over the nonrelational robot in terms of enjoyableness, companionship, and as an exercise coach, varying user preferences regarding choice, and high user ratings of the system across multiple metrics. The outcomes of the presented user studies, brought together, support the motivational capabilities of the robot, and demonstrate the viability and usefulness of the system in motivating exercise in elderly users.']
['--sin autores--', 'A study on the different recreational demands of intelligent environment technology among the three elderly groups', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5406212', 'To respond to the critical needs of the aging society in Taiwan, the relationship between the intelligent environment technology and recreational behavior of the elderly needs to be examined. The purpose of this study is to define the level of demand of the intelligent environment technology on the elderly. To understand the intelligent environment technology, the researchers reviewed literature, conducted interviews, and focus group discussions with the elderly. The study interviewed 430 participants selected from the elderly population in Taipei. One-to-one interviews were conducted by a trained interviewee using a structured questionnaire assessing personal characteristics and weekly leisure-time behavior. The results showed that the safety is the most important and enhancement of convenience is the least important demand for intelligent environment technology. A safe environment is the most demanding issue for the elderly to participate in recreational activities. Based on one-week leisure behavior, the study divided the participants into three groups: home recreational participants (HR), walking distance recreational participants (WDR), and not regular recreational participants (NRR). NRR participants scored significantly higher on the demands compared to other groups. In conclusion, to assist the elderly in recreational participation, intelligent environment technology should focus on the safety issue. Furthermore, intelligent environment technology needs to consider demands of the elderly, especially the NRR group.']
['--sin autores--', 'Comprehensive evaluation based on crisis prevention management of fuzzy analysis', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6002491', 'The crisis prevention management evaluation system mainly includes effective warning mechanism, effective internal coordination mechanism, effective cooperation between the government and cooperation mechanisms between countries, developing the professional organization ability, dealing with various crises effectively, establishing a social support system, absorbing the participation of citizens and community, and setting up the "joint production" mechanism. It considers each system as a first grade index and there are 5 first grade indexes and 12 secondary indexes. The fuzzy mathematics theory discusses the combination of qualitative and quantitative comprehensive evaluation model of the crisis prevention management, provides theoretical support for improving the government crisis management level evaluation and increasing the whole social emergency management level.']
['--sin autores--', 'Heat and Dust: The Solar Energy Challenge in Chile', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7048023', 'Chile offers unique conditions for the development of solar energy solutions. The new government is drawing up an ambitious road map for the development of solar energy. Some visions include the positioning of Chile as a regional solar energy exporter. This article examines this trend, based on the development of the power sector, the power market, analysis models, innovation opportunities, and the public policies implemented over the past ten years. It provides an overview of the solar energy scenario for Latin America and examines the technical challenges faced by the various solar technologies, and it discusses transmission systems and storage solutions. The issues of citizen empowerment, community engagement, and sustainable development in the context of solar energy development in the region are discussed along with the need for development of the human capital required to address alternative solar energy challenges from a technical and social standpoint.']
['--sin autores--', 'Situated Engagement and Virtual Services in a Smart City', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6978634', 'In the northern city of Oulu, Finland, we have been pursuing a visible change to the local society by building a functional prototype of what we call an open ubiquitous city. Today the ubiquitous city offers various permanent services as well as short-term research probes for its dwellers to use. In this article we first describe the still fermenting vision behind much of the service development in Oulu. Second, we introduce three new technological concepts that we are currently investigating in the smart city context: situated kiosks for community engagement, sound-based resource discovery mechanism, and a complete, functional 3D-model of the pivotal downtown areas of Oulu. Finally, we discuss some of the future research directions and implications of the introduced technological additions. We hope the ideas shared in this article can help the research community in designing and creating better services for the future cities.']
['--sin autores--', 'Social Capital and the Networked Public Sphere: Implications for Political Social Media Sites', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6149326', 'This paper presents a theoretical lens for research on social media use in eParticipation, along with an example case study. The idea of the public sphere and how it can be applied to eParticipation research is presented. The public sphere is discussed in relation to Cast ell\'s notion of the network society as the "networked public sphere", and social capital is introduced as a possible explanation for why some people choose to participate while others refrain from doing so. An example case is presented and analysed in terms of the public sphere and social capital. Finally, the argument is made that working public spheres, enacted through various online social media platforms, can contribute to increased social capital and increased political debate among citizens.']
['--sin autores--', 'Notice of Retraction<BR>Obstacles and countermeasures for public participation in environment decision-making in China', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5775401', "Notice of Retraction<BR><BR>After careful and considered review of the content of this paper by a duly constituted expert committee, this paper has been found to be in violation of IEEE's Publication Principles.<BR><BR>We hereby retract the content of this paper. Reasonable effort should be made to remove all past references to this paper.<BR><BR>The presenting author of this paper has the option to appeal this decision by contacting TPII@ieee.org.<BR><BR>With the change of social structure brought about by the transformation of our society and the awakening of public awareness of their rights, governments must promote public participation in environment decision-making. Orderly public participation is the basis and guarantees to promote environment decision-making more scientific and democratic. But many realistic obstacles such as our traditional institutional, political and cultural environment, lack of the systems, lack of public capacity for participation hinder public participation in environment decision-making. Therefore, china should take measures to promote public participation in environment decision-making: change idea of environment decision-making, perfect the design of the law and system, increase public ability for participation and attach importance to the effect of the civil environment organization."]
['--sin autores--', 'Digital technologies and democracy: Assessing the Latin American experience', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6819927', "The talk will present my own research focused on how new Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) have affected politics and society in Latin America. Specifically, it will examine if and in how far the spread and use of digital technologies affected central aims of democratic governance such as strengthening citizen participation in political decision making; increasing the transparency of legislative processes; improving administrative processes; providing free access to government data and information; and expanding independent spaces of citizen communication. While these aspects have been extensively studied in the United States and Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) context, their systematic analysis in the regions of the Global South and more concretely in Latin America remains an academic task ahead. However, while it was largely assumed that in catching up on the digital divide developing nations would simply emulate practices and structures of the Global North, the analyses to be presented seeks to demonstrate that Latin American citizens and governments have come up with innovative digital solutions to the particular political problems related to the region's historical legacy. Summarizing, this presentation seeks to assess in how far digital technologies in Latin America either contributed to or obstructed: - government accountability and transparency, - civil society's ability to fulfill socio-political watchdog's functions, such as scrutinising the efficiency and effectiveness of public services and holding politicians accountable - citizen participation in political decision making - the creation alternative mobilization structures for political participation."]
['--sin autores--', 'Decisive factors for the adoption of technology in E-government platforms', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6877042', 'This paper explores the factors explaining the adoption of e-government platforms by Portuguese citizens. Since it is still a challenge the adoption of e-government, e-participation and the e-citizenship in Portuguese society, one of the goals of this study is to create a conceptual model based on previous research to measure what are the factors that can lead to the intention of using an e-government platform. Such factors are trust, privacy, social influence, security, relative advantage, web design and perceived ease of use. Hypotheses were created based on these factors, so that future research can be applied and evaluated, and thus prove these assumptions.']
['--sin autores--', 'The Contours of Crowd Capability', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6759033', 'In this work we use the theory of Crowd Capital as a lens to compare and contrast a number of IS tools currently in use by organizations for crowd-engagement purposes. In doing so, we contribute to both the practitioner and research domains. For the practitioner community we provide decision-makers with a convenient and useful resource, in table-form, outlining in detail some of the differing potentialities of crowd-engaging IS. For the research community we begin to unpack some of the key properties of crowd-engaging IS, including some of the differing qualities of the crowds that these IS application engage.']
['--sin autores--', 'E-Participation and Climate Change: Are Local Governments Actively Promoting Responsible Behaviors and Offering Opportunities for Citizen Involvement?', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6149313', 'Citizens are demanding greater transparency and accountability from their governments, and seek to participate in shaping the policies that affect their lives. The diffusion of the Internet has raised expectations that electronic tools may increase citizen participation in government decision-making and stop the decline of trust in political institutions. This paper brings together two relevant topics, e-participation and climate change, analyzing the websites of the environment departments of European local governments that have signed the Aalborg+10 commitments, to establish to what extent European local governments are making use of the Internet to promote e-participation and environmental-friendly behaviors among their citizens. Our results show that the developments on e-participation are higher in those areas just giving information than in the areas related to interactivity. The Internet as a tool to revitalize the public sphere is still limited to those countries with higher levels of transparency and a culture of citizen engagement.']
['--sin autores--', 'Using mobile phones for public participation with local government in Cape Town', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7190526', 'Although governments around the world have welcomed the idea of promoting interactions with citizens during their process of decision-making, research has indicated that fear, the level of trust in the government, and privacy are among the reasons for reluctance and apathy from citizens towards interacting with their government. This study aims to determine the extent to which trust, expectancy, social influence, and incentives will influence mobile interaction with the government. A survey approach was used to sample Capetonians about mobile participation with their local government. Results indicate that respondents were not willing to participate in their local government because they did not trust the government to protect their privacy. However, respondents were willing to use their mobile phones to report damaged infrastructure or service delivery issues. From the various incentives that were suggested, benefit to the community was a popular choice. Recommendations for promoting mobile participation include introducing non-monetary incentives as well as mobile applications that will provide the user with convenience, cost efficiency, and an assurance of their privacy.']
['--sin autores--', 'Participating in Publics', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/ebooks/bookPdfWithBanner.jsp?fileName=7059604.pdf&bkn=7059554&pdfType=chapter', 'This chapter contains sections titled: On Publics, Rihanna in Concert: Making Performers of Us All, Strictly Come Dancing: The Public Talk Back, Having a Vote and Having a Voice, Vernacular Voices and Social Media, A Technological Imaginary of a Digital Civics Platform, Networked Participatory Publics: A New Space of Potential']
['--sin autores--', 'Notice of Retraction<BR>Network-politics-participation of the information age: Backgrounds, values and impacts', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5884507', "Notice of Retraction<BR><BR>After careful and considered review of the content of this paper by a duly constituted expert committee, this paper has been found to be in violation of IEEE's Publication Principles.<BR><BR>We hereby retract the content of this paper. Reasonable effort should be made to remove all past references to this paper.<BR><BR>The presenting author of this paper has the option to appeal this decision by contacting TPII@ieee.org.<BR><BR>Citizen political participation will inevitably show a lot of revolutionary features of digit and network. The rise of net-participation is closely related to the rapid development of social economy and network technology. The political backgrounds of net-participation are mainly composed of the crisis of representative democracy and the trend of direct democracy. Moreover, the new ideas of service-oriented government based on civil society will further promote the development of net-participation. There are a range of new characteristics in net-participation, such as reducing the costs of political participation, broadening its channels, and making direct democracy possible. Net-participation has a positive impact on the democratic development. It may reduce the sense of people's political apathy and increase their enthusiasm for political participation, cultivate citizens' democratic consciousness and political responsibility, and network supervision might become the most extensive and representative one. The net-participation also contributes to the reforms of governments. Power structure is developing from centralized to decentralized level. Decision-making structures are developing from vertically to interactively. Network weakens the government's management functions and strengthens communications and contacts between the government and the public, and highlights the government's service functions."]
['--sin autores--', 'E-Participation in Network Political Era: Background, Features and Functions', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5591597', "Citizen political participation in future will inevitably show a lot of revolutionary features of digit and network. The rise of e-participation is closely related to the rapid development of social economy and network technology. The political background of e-participation is mainly composed of the crisis of representative democracy and the trend of direct democracy. Moreover, the new ideas of service-oriented government based on civil society will further promote the development of e-participation. There are a range of new characteristics in e-participation, such as reducing the cost of political participation, broadening its channels, and making direct democracy possible. E-participation has a positive impact on the democratic development. First, it may reduce the sense of people's political apathy and increase their enthusiasm for political participation. Second, it may cultivate citizens' democratic consciousness and political responsibility. Third, network consensus supervision might become the most extensive and representative one in the whole society. Fourth, the e-participation also contributes to the reforms of governments' management, which is mainly reflected as follows: the power structure changes from the centralization model to the decentralized one; decision-making structure changes from the vertical model to the interactive model; networks will weaken the functions of governments' regulations, enhance the communication and contact between governments and the public, and highlight the governments' service functions."]
['--sin autores--', 'Comparative analysis of civic scientific literacy and its influential factors among the regions in China', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6641660', "It was divided into regions of eastern, central and western in China according to geographical positions and levels of economic development, reflecting the disparity of regional economic and social development. The results of China Civic Scientific Literacy Survey conducted in 2010 showed there were significant differences between the levels of civic scientific literacy and the citizens' participation and interests in science and technology among these regions. Multi-group analysis via structural equation modeling (SEM) could be used to evaluate the differences among these regions based on the model of civic scientific literacy and its influential factors. This comparative analysis was the crucial process to learn the characteristic of each region in the field of public understanding of science in China, which was the reference for science related policy-making."]
['--sin autores--', 'E-participation in higher education: The importance of non-technical factors as identified in the EU-project MyUniversity', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7043998', 'Many higher education institutes and universities are involved in beyond borders decision making processes. These activities accelerated after Bologna process agreement. E-participation not only covers the general participation of citizens, but also enables higher education decision makers to communicate with each other and with all stakeholders within the university. During more than ten years the EU has funded projects in the area of e-democracy and e-participation in order to respond to this emerging requirement. The aim of some of these projects has been to equip universities with e-participation tools or platforms. There have been some EU projects that turned out to become great successes while some other projects have not been particularly useful. Lots of studies have been published about these projects and the core ideas behind them. But they have mainly covered technical aspects and less about non-technical challenges such as socio-cultural differences, rules and regulations and challenges related to unifying different decision making processes. In the present study an attempt has been made to identify the non-technical factors which have an impact for the success of e-participation in higher education. The EU-funded project MyUniversity has been selected as a case study. It involved 17 higher institutions in Europe. Data collection was conducted by means of recorded semi structured interviews with stakeholders of the MyUniversity project. Data-analysis was done using a systematic coding of audio flies using the Nvivo software and based on grounded theory principles. The emerging main categories of non-technical factors identified by interpreting data have been the major contribution of this study. The study clearly demonstrates that non-technical factors were very influential in the MyUniversity project. The following nontechnical factors were identified as crucial for the success of e-participation in higher education: 1) The socio-cultural context, 2) Id- ntification of users, 3) Usability, drivers and motivation. The study showed that deeper needs assessments locally at each university and "cultural studies" are very crucial and should not be neglected, even though conducting them for every single involved country or institution are both budget and time consuming. Moreover, each educational institute should use its own motivational techniques based on their cultural studies in order to involve their users. This study concludes that the "business strategies" used by EU for introducing e-participation projects in higher education in EU countries need to be revised taking into account the identified issues.']
['--sin autores--', 'Problems and prospects of internet in new e-Nepal', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6113942', "This paper is intended to provide knowledge of development of internet technologies in Nepal. It also depicts the current situation and facing challenges by our society and gives the future potential for supporting different aspects of social elements that can be beneficiated by use of internet. In the era of information super highway people around the world are making their lives more comfortable. This helps them in saving time and money and invoking improved service delivery. We the people of Nepal want our government to be more accountable more committed to people's right that's why we need e-Governance. The promise of e-Government is that it will be able to improve governance through citizen empowerment and participation, better delivery of government services, more efficient management, less corruption, more transparency, greater convenience, increased revenue, and reduced costs."]
['--sin autores--', 'Designing mobile interaction to elicit alternative solutions for participatory decision-making', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5471927', "Good decisions require good understanding of the problem, the context and available options. This knowledge, in general, is dispersed through several, frequently unidentified, individuals. Collecting, filtering and putting together the relevant knowledge pieces to create solutions are difficult tasks. Many domains fit this scenario of distributed knowledge and creative solution's needs including governmental decision-making. Democratic governments constantly need to make sense of population demands to properly make decisions that attend overall will. However, low citizens participation in government decisions through democratic processes is an aspect that defies democracy itself. Large-scale citizens participation is difficult for the lack of technology to collect, filter and synthesize information. To deal with this problem, we developed an intelligent mobile network that allows broad citizens' participation and feasible government action. Previous research indicates cellular phones as the device with the broadest acceptance in all Brazilian social classes. Sending messages and voting by cell phones are broken barriers to consider the device as the natural input interface for citizen-government interaction. Additionally, message summarization and clusterization help government understand the demands. In this paper we present mGov, a system for eliciting and answering citizen demands in a participatory government structure. A prototype has been deployed with good results electronic"]
['--sin autores--', 'Intelligent system for valorizing solid urban waste', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6876904', 'The management of municipal solid waste is a complex problem for most developed countries. At present, only a few small cities have implemented procedures for collecting garbage in an innovative way. Thus, it is urgent to implement measures that initiate sustainable behavior, with the active participation of citizens, ensuring the conservation of resources through the reduction and recovery of waste. This paper describes the iEcoSys system (Intelligent Ecologic System) developed by the authors. It is a technological tool that identifies the waste produced individually, using RFID tags embedded in rubbish bags - the iBags. When depositing waste, the recycling center identifies and weighs each bag and the collected data is sent to a server system using ZigBee communication standard. When the information reaches the server system, it is inserted into the database management system, making it possible to see the deposited waste in the iEcoSys Internet portal, and even order new iBags. Making the cities smarter and promote sustainability by changing the paradigm of receiving the recycled rubbish instead of paying for the waste produced, is the contribution of this study.']
['--sin autores--', 'Issues and Strategies of the Network Political Communication: On the Social-Oriented Construction of E-Government', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5576643', 'Facing the opportunities and challenges of Internet age, Chinese government has initialized the system of network communication with civil society. However, there still exist some notable issues mainly as follows. First, the complexity of Internet information causes the disorders of network political participation. Second, the powers of Internet age are clearly shifted to the hands of technocrats, and thus the substantive democracy of civil society might be impaired. Third, the deficiency of government network construction sets up many obstacles for the communication. Fourth, the "digital divide" leads to the fact that political communication cannot represent the public interests. In response to these issues, "legal guarantee system", "network real-name system", and security mechanism of orderly political participation through network should be established. The government is also supposed to take measures towards the elimination of "digital divide". In addition, it is significant to improve the network ability and awareness of government departments, civil servants, and the citizens.']
['--sin autores--', 'E-Government Service Value Assessment with Participation Index and Modified BSC Model', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5362228', 'E-government initiatives have shifted from the provision of services to the use of information and communication technology (ICT) to increase the value of services. As a qualitative measure of service offered by e-government, e-participation index is carefully explored as the outcome-oriented assessment and a modified BSC model as process-oriented evaluation framework is constructed. The combination of participation index and modified BSC model will better assess e-government service value.']
['--sin autores--', 'Adopting an ABCs Authentication Framework for Collective Intelligent eBusiness Models in Smart Cities', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7433845', "Nowadays, the majority of humans live in a world ofinterconnected cities. A contemporary city attempts to improve the quality of citizens' life and its economy by integrating digital infrastructures with the physical city (smart city). Moreover, citizens in smart cities are playing the centralrole in the majority of eBusiness models that are based onCollective Intelligent decision making applications. However, citizens avoid the participation in such applications by providing data because they feel that there is a risk of correlating their activities and data with their identities. Thus, there is a need to protect citizens' privacy in the territory of a smart city while encouraging them to participate in the establishment of new markets. In this paper, the encapsulation of an ABCs based authentication system in a generic eBusiness model that provides Collective Intelligent eServices in Smart Cities is presented. In the emerging eBusiness Model, the user privacy/anonymity hasa central role which increases user incentives to participatein the establishment of new markets and products in a city territory."]
['--sin autores--', 'Participatory Budgeting: A Framework to Analyze the Value-Add of Citizen Participation', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6758858', 'The dynamic and tremendous evolution of information and communication technologies (ICTs) has provided unique opportunities for citizen participation in democratic decision making processes. Such opportunities have been widely noted, in recent years, in processes like Participatory Budgeting (PB). From the originating practices of PB in Brazil, experiences of PB around the world have been uniquely exercised. While some processes leverage widely on the use of ICTs, others do not. The rationale of utilizing ICTs in PB processes with respect to challenges, benefits and resulted public value-add is still unclear. This has created a wide perspective on whether ICTs should be adopted in the traditional PB processes. This paper investigates the added public value through the use of ICTs in PB by comparing three models of participation in PB - offline, online and hybrid models. The comparison of these models reveals insights and understandings of diverse processes, challenges and underlying rationales of ICT use with respect to public value-add. In order to better understand the impact of ICTs to public value in PB, this paper proposes a framework for analyzing public value-add of ICT use in PB processes. The framework is used to assess ICT use in the three models of PB.']
['--sin autores--', 'Political Functions of E-Democracy', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5576545', "Electronic democracy is a new democracy form taking advanced information and communication technology, network and relevant technologies as the operation platform, direct democracy as development trend, taking citizens' partaking in democratic operation procedures collectively, initiatively and practically such as democratic decision-making and democratic election as typical feature. Political democratization trend, abuse of traditional democracy i.e. democratic representative system, citizens' desire of partaking in political affairs, development of social economy, advanced information and communication technologies are main reasons for development of electronic democracy. In modern political life, electronic democracy plays a role in supplying necessary information, training citizens' participation skills, inspiring citizens' democratic participation enthusiasm, improving citizens' political participation, enhancing legality of government and improving political decision-making, the development of electronic democracy supplies the growth space for direct democracy."]
['--sin autores--', 'Social amplification factor for mobile crowd sensing: The ParticipAct experience', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7405544', "Mobile Crowd Sensing (MCS) aims to coordinate and activate the participation of volunteers willing to use their smartphones to harvest large quantities of data as they move in urban areas. One of the most important requirements in MCS is maximizing the effectiveness of the data gathering campaign. In fact, also due to the initial low penetration rate of MCS apps and to avoid making the MCS process cumbersome to users, only a small portion of the whole citizenship can be involved in such campaign, while most citizens are not part of the process. This paper proposes a novel approach that combines participatory and opportunistic techniques to amplify the amount of data harvested from the crowd. The core idea is that people with similar interests, such as employees of the same company, students or friends tend to meet more frequently with respect to people with different interests. Accordingly, it is possible to opportunistically involve in the crowd sensing loop people in the volunteers' neighborhood. Following that main design guideline, our work assesses the SOcial amplification FActor (SOFA) that allows to increase the number of samples retrievable during a crowd sensing campaign. We show the benefits of SOFA by using the ParticipAct MCS platform and we analyze three different application scenarios. Highly realistic simulation results, based on ParticipAct mobility traces, show the advantages of SOFA, with an amplification factor increasing up to 4.45."]
['--sin autores--', 'Research of the interactive platform for government and people based on internet', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5479340', "The interactive means of government and people can effectively safeguard the citizen's right to information, participation and supervision , reduce the government's administrative costs and improve administrative efficiency. Meanwhile, it has an important significance for strengthening information communication for government and people, promoting openness in government affairs, improving the level and quality of government services, so as to realize the transformation to service-oriented government. Therefore, using a variety of technical means to establish the two-way interaction transmission of information between government and people, expressing the concept of people-oriented and governing for people is very important. This paper studies deeply the interactive way of government and people in the internet, as well as the interactive services of Web in the government portal website."]
['--sin autores--', 'The value of information - Assessing ICT requirements in local government', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7190549', 'Municipalities are the extension of national government, responsible for the implementation of policy and delivering services to local communities. South African legislation requires citizen engagement, however, the country often experiences poor delivery and \xe2\x80\x9cparticipation\xe2\x80\x9d takes the form of protests. Over the last decade, ICTs have been used to address inequalities in service delivery by promoting citizen engagement and enhancing accountability and transparency of local government. The potential of ICTs in this environment has often been met with eagerness, but many unsuccessful projects, with unintended consequences, are examples that the methods of assessing the appropriateness of the technologies need to be revisited. Are we forcing interventions and applications on sectors that are already stretched and under-resourced without questioning the risk? By adopting the Information Value Chain (IVC) approach, this study presents a method to the way we analyse the information needs of municipalities and communities and challenge our own perception of the appropriateness of ICTs as a tool for governance.']
['--sin autores--', "E-participation: Factors affect Citizens' acceptance and readiness in Kingdom of Bahrain", 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=7009029', "Technology has become an integral element in the life of communities. One of the major fields that Technology is playing a major role is the citizens participation through what is called E-participation. E-participation is the use of Technology to enhance participation between different stakeholders and governments. It increases transparency, enhances the communication between the government and stakeholders including citizens, and enables them to involved in policy making process. E-participation by its real mean is now applied in Kingdom of Bahrain. Therefore, it is useful to measure the acceptance and readiness of citizens towards E-participation tools. This research is to investigate the factors that affect citizens' acceptance and readiness to use E-participation tools. Towards this aim, 250 questionnaires were collected from citizens in Kingdom of Bahrain at different ages over 18 years. The findings of this research revealed that there are significant factors that influence citizens' readiness and acceptance of E-participation tools including optimum, innovation, insecurity, and discomfort. This research provides the government of Kingdom of Bahrain insights on factors that are important to enhance the readiness and acceptance of their citizens towards using E-participation tools."]
['--sin autores--', 'The use of Wiki technology in electronic parliament activity', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6110908', 'Development of automated work regime, internal intranet network and web-site provides efficiency in the parliament activity. However, these technologies applied in the parliament activity can not realize electronic democracy principles entirely. If taking into account these principles - direct participation of citizens in the process of law making, requirements and proposals, etc. the importance of application of more effective electronic technology in the parliament activities emerges. Considering this, in terms of the settlement of problems in the electronic parliament activity, the application of Wiki technologies is proposed in the given paper. Advantages of Wiki technology use in the e-parliament activities are indicated. The e-parliament opportunities based on Wiki technology are analyzed, as well.']
['--sin autores--', 'Secure and Privacy-Preserving Proxy Voting System', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=6686307', 'Voting is a frequent and popular decision making process in many diverse areas, targeting the fields of e-Government, e-Participation, e-Business, etc. In e-Business, voting processes may be carried out e.g. in order management, inventory management, or production management. In this field, voting processes are typically based on direct voting. While direct voting enables each eligible voter to express her opinion about a given subject, representative voting shifts this power to elected representatives. Declarative or proxy voting (based on liquid democracy) is a voting process situated in between these two approaches and allows a voter to delegate her voting power to a so called proxy, who actually casts the votes for all the represented voters. The most interesting aspect of this approach is that voters have the opportunity to skip the direct involvement when they trust the proxy to act within their best interest. Liquid democracy and proxy voting has been implemented in various software tools that facilitate the voting process. However, the current systems lack security features typically required by electronic voting systems. Therefore, we present a system that integrates cryptographic functionality and relies on qualified signatures created by the Austrian citizen card to solve the current security issues. This system can support e-Business processes and applications in decision making, enabling the delegation of votes.']
['--sin autores--', 'Online Organization of an Offline Protest: From Social to Traditional Media and Back', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5718659', 'This paper is a qualitative examination of the participatory potential of social media, focusing on a student-organized protest against censorship in Singapore. While the debate regarding the impact of new media on politics is well-documented, few studies have explicitly detailed the process of online civic mobilization in terms of its contribution to the more traditional forms of political participation, including real-world protests. This case study provides a detailed account of how social media platforms, such as Facebook, as well as traditional media forms were used to organize a student protest against censorship. The findings indicate that social network sites provided easily accessible, inexpensive and effective means for civic organization and mobilization. In addition, blogs and forums were used to foster public debate and deliberation on the issue. We also found that the activists used social media not to circumvent but rather to engage traditional media stakeholders and amplify the impact of their messages and actions.']
['--sin autores--', 'Liberopinion: A web platform for enhancing e-democracy', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5756585', 'Liberopinion is a web platform for enabling e-democracy applications. This paper seeks to present the features of two e-democracy applications on this platform, one for government performance monitoring and another for candidate-citizen interaction during the electoral period, as well as the results from a trial about the latter application used for the Portuguese elections held in 2009.']
['--sin autores--', 'Liberopinion: A web platform for elections 2.0', 'IEEE', 'http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5556648', 'The platform Liberopinion-Elections consists of a Rich Internet Application which seeks to bring together the stakeholders in a political election allowing, in a single place, multi-directional and structured communication between them. Based on a citizen and candidate approach, the platform Liberopinion-Elections enables collaborative interaction between these stakeholders through questions, answers, proposals, ratings and comments with the aim of fostering communication, deliberation and participation. In this paper, the main features of this application are described and the results of a case study about its use in the election for Mayor of Viseu held in 2009 are presented.']
['Agyemang, Kwame J.A.', 'Toward a framework of \xe2\x80\x9cathlete citizenship\xe2\x80\x9d in professional sport through authentic community stakeholder engagement', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/SBM-12-2011-0088 \n', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 While there is extant research regarding corporate citizenship, the literature negates the micro level of analysis as it only concentrates on macro and/or meso levels. Utilizing sport as a context, more specifically, professional athletes, the purpose of this paper is to introduce a concept termed athlete citizenship. The author defines athlete citizenship as the manner in which a professional athlete conducts himself or herself (on and away from competition) and makes a positive impact on society. The author centralizes community stakeholder engagement as one method of exemplifying athlete citizenship qualities. In doing so, the author attempts to provide professional athletes and their managers with a framework to engage community stakeholders. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Given the scope of what is asked of professional athletes in the current age, the author adopts Sequeira and Warner's (2007) framework on how organizations can engage community stakeholders and applies it to professional athletes. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The author argues that by carrying out authentic community stakeholder engagement, professional athletes can witness strategic benefits such as eliminating resentment, building a positive reputation, attaining revenue-generating ventures, and enhancing their brand. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This paper is the first to discuss stakeholder engagement among professional athletes, the notion of athlete citizenship and how these can produce strategic benefits."]
['Alberghini, Elena; Cricelli, Livio & Grimaldi, Michele', 'A methodology to manage and monitor social media inside a company: a case study', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/JKM-10-2013-0392 \n', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 This paper aims to discuss the individual participation and involvement affecting the user engagement in social media and to answer the following research questions: Is it possible to measure the individual participation and involvement of social media within organizations? Which factors should be analysed in order to increase the individual participation in social media? Which KPIs should be selected in order to increase the user \t\t\t\t\t' \t\t\t\ts engagement and increase individual participation in social media? Can social media in a company be measured in terms of their impact on KM?Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 This paper presents a case study that describes how Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are used to monitor and manage the applications of social technologies, which include many tools facilitating the participation and collaboration on the web. The case study was applied to the information and communication technology area of Eni S.p.A., which is an integrated energy company active in over 70 countries in the world.Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Based on the indications obtained from the case study, a methodology is proposed to select and develop the appropriate KPIs in order to manage and monitor the application of social technologies. The methodology turned out to be able to monitor collaboration and knowledge sharing activities among employees and to incentivize participation and involvement of employees who use the company \t\t\t\t\t' \t\t\t\ts social media.Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 Organizations can use the suggested methodology as a guideline for managing and monitoring social media inside a company. The possibility of continuously modifying the adopted social media tool by means of corrective actions together with the possibility of adapting the KPIs to new situations make the present methodology an efficient management approach to take on the multifaceted activities of a social media environment.Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Few case studies dealing with the applications regarding the implementation and management of social technologies within organizations have been carried out. Similarly, even if some empirical studies have been proposed to analyse what motivates and prevents employees from sharing their knowledge through social media, there appears to be a lack of studies which have taken into consideration the evaluation of the actual benefits in terms of individual involvement and participation, knowledge sharing and increase in performance."]
['Argiolas, G.; Cabras, S.; Dess\xc3\xac, C. & Floris, M.', 'Building innovative models of territorial governance', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/17538330911013898 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to examine public\xe2\x80\x90private partnerships with a particular focus on the impact that such partnerships have on territorial governance. These organizations are spread all over the world with the goal of promoting community participation and sustainable development, and engaging citizens and organizations in the decision making of local governance. This situation underlines important changes in governance and territorial governance models.Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 A mix of qualitative and quantitative approaches are used. Analysing the existing literature, the paper focuses on specific type of public\xe2\x80\x90private partnership: the Local Action Group (LAG). Specifically, this study focuses on 63 Italian LAGs, in order to highlight their role in the challenges that local governance has to face.Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Findings suggest that public\xe2\x80\x90private partnerships can represent a new model of governance \xe2\x80\x93 the Partnership Governance \xe2\x80\x93 with features that differentiate this form from other models.Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Through a relatively novel statistical technique, combined with interviews, document analysis and direct observations, on the one hand the public\xe2\x80\x90private partnership phenomenon is observed, and on the other hand, a new mode of governance that is affecting the worldwide scenario in a current era and that is introducing ethical principles in governance systems is conceived.']
['Axelsson, Karin; Melin, Ulf & Lindgren, Ida', 'Exploring the importance of citizen participation and involvement in e\xe2\x80\x90government projects: Practice, incentives, and organization', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/17506161011081309 \n', 'This study has been financially supported by the Swedish Agency for Innovation Systems (VINNOVA), through the VINNOVA programme \xe2\x80\x9cInnovative development of cross\xe2\x80\x90boundary public e\xe2\x80\x90services\xe2\x80\x9d within the Growth Area E\xe2\x80\x90services in public administration.']
['Barker, Katharine E.; Cox, Deborah & Sveinsdottir, Thordis', 'Foresight on the future of public research metrology in Europe', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/14636681111109660 \n', 'The authors would like to acknowledge the support of the European Commission, DG Research contract number 30\xe2\x80\x90CE\xe2\x80\x900243755/00\xe2\x80\x9051 and of Technopolis Plc, Brighton, UK, contract coordinator. Equal credit in production of this article is afforded to the authors. Received: 13 October 2010. Revised: 1 November 2010. Accepted: 1 November 2010']
['Bauer, Theresa', 'The Responsibilities of Social Networking Companies: Applying Political CSR Theory to Google, Facebook and Twitter', 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S2043-9059%282014%290000006005', ' Abstract  Purpose Social networking sites (SNS) are enjoying growing popularity and have triggered new ethical issues including risks of deception, social grooming, cyber-bullying and surveillance. This development along with the growing power of SNS providers calls for an investigation of the CSR engagement of SNS companies. The chapter examines to what extent three prominent providers \xe2\x80\x93 Google, Facebook and Twitter \xe2\x80\x93 fulfill their responsibilities.   Methodology/approach The chapter draws heavily on a politicized concept of CSR, namely \xe2\x80\x98corporate citizenship\xe2\x80\x99 (Crane, Matten, & Moon, 2008a; Matten & Crane, 2005) and \xe2\x80\x98political CSR\xe2\x80\x99 (Scherer & Palazzo, 2007, 2011) and discusses the role SNS providers play in administering citizenship rights. The chapter takes a qualitative case study approach.   Findings Facebook, Twitter and Google have not only made clear commitments to act responsibly, they actually enhance the citizenship status of their users in many ways, e.g. by offering a platform for democracy activists. Deficiencies and contradictions also become visible, e.g. SNS providers inhibit citizenship by failing to provide sufficient privacy protection.   Research limitations/implications The chapter is limited by its case study approach, but provides valuable insights to an industry with considerable influence. It contributes to CSR research by applying and testing the politicized concept of CSR in the context of SNS providers.   Originality/value Although SNS have received appraisal as effective tools of CSR communication, there has been little attention to CSR policy and practice of the companies providing social networks. This is unfortunate since the activities of SNS providers directly impact on millions of users worldwide.  ']
['Bonilla-Silva, Eduardo & Seamster, Louise', 'The Sweet Enchantment of Color Blindness in Black Face: Explaining the \xe2\x80\x9cMiracle,\xe2\x80\x9d Debating the Politics, and Suggesting a Way for Hope to be \xe2\x80\x9cFor Real\xe2\x80\x9d in America', 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S0198-8719%282011%290000022012', "This essay tackles the Obama \xe2\x80\x9cphenomenon,\xe2\x80\x9d from his candidacy to his election, as a manifestation of the new \xe2\x80\x9ccolor-blind racism\xe2\x80\x9d that has characterized U.S. racial politics in the post-civil rights era. Rather than symbolizing the \xe2\x80\x9cend of race,\xe2\x80\x9d or indeed a \xe2\x80\x9cmiracle,\xe2\x80\x9d Obama's election is a predictable result of contemporary U.S. electoral politics. In fact, Obama is a middle-of-the-road Democrat whose policies since taking office have been almost perfectly in line with his predecessors, especially in terms of his failure to improve the lot of blacks and other minorities. In this essay, I review the concept of color-blind racism and its application to the Obama phenomenon. I also revisit some of my past predictions for Obama's presidency and evaluate their accuracy halfway through his term. Finally, I offer suggestions for constructing a genuine social movement to push Obama and future politicians to provide real, progressive \xe2\x80\x9cchange we can believe in.\xe2\x80\x9dThis chapter is based on a chapter I added for the third edition of my book, Racism without Racists. Louise Seamster, a wonderful graduate student at Duke, helped me update some material, locate new sources, and rework some sections, as well as abridge some of the many footnotes (interested readers can consult the chapter). I kept the first person to maintain the more direct and engaged tone of the original piece and because the ideas (the good, the bad, and the ugly ones) in the chapter are mine, and thus, I wish to remain entirely responsible for them."]
['Brubaker, Pamela Jo; Horning, Michael & Toula, Christopher M.', 'Engaging Young Voters in the Political Process: U.S. Presidential Debates and YouTube', 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S2050-206020150000009002', ' Abstract The growth in popularity of new media has led some television networks in the United States to experiment with alternative forms of political debate by encouraging viewers of all ages to submit video questions to political candidates. Surprisingly, however, experimentation with this new type of debate format in the 2008 U.S. presidential election cycle did not lead to the adoption of new debate formats in the subsequent 2012 election cycle, despite its success with viewing audiences. This study examines various debate formats to understand the value of participatory, user-generated debate question formats versus more traditional debate question formats whereby moderators or live audience members ask presidential candidates scripted questions. Using a between-subjects experiment, this study examines four types of televised debate formats to assess young adult viewers\xe2\x80\x99 impressions of each format as well as image perceptions of a political candidate and the individual posing the debate question. The findings suggest debate formats impact perceptions of a political candidate\xe2\x80\x99s image differently for young men and young women. In addition, varying the debate format impacts young voters\xe2\x80\x99 perceptions of debate questioners as well as their overall perceptions of the debate. Implications for viewing audiences are discussed. U.S. presidential candidates should embrace presidential debate formats that encourage citizens to participate in the political process via new media technologies. This study shows implementing more engaging and interactive presidential debate formats can positively impact young voters\xe2\x80\x99 perceptions. ']
['da C.L. Alves, Tha\xc3\xads; Milberg, Colin & Walsh, Kenneth D.', 'Exploring lean construction practice, research, and education', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/09699981211259595 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to investigate the history of dissemination and use of lean concepts in construction and potential challenges for continued use, as application of lean concepts transitions from a small group of first adopters to an industry\xe2\x80\x90wide community.Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Using insights obtained from a meeting with industry practitioners, literature review, and published cases in which different approaches were used to disseminate lean production/construction, evidence is presented that supports these challenges.Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The authors identify three challenges facing lean construction (LC) practitioners, researchers, and educators. One challenge is lean has many meanings (whether denoted or connoted) when applied to construction. Another challenge is to have academics constantly working with industry practitioners to keep working on the adaptation of concepts/systems and not only tools. The third challenge is that without a sustained effort to engage people in meaningful learning experiences, LC may be viewed as a fad in the construction industry.Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 The discussion presents the authors\xe2\x80\x99 interpretation of facts and existing literature reviewed to support the arguments made. Moreover, while the literature reviewed addresses sources from different parts of the world, the preponderance of the authors\xe2\x80\x99 research activities and experience are limited to two countries, Brazil and the USA.Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 In the face of overwhelming interest in lean by the construction industry, research on effective methods for disseminating lean concepts is overdue.Social implications \xe2\x80\x93 By partnering with industry practitioners who are already implementing LC or want to start the journey, academics have access to projects (labs in the real world) and can bring back to the classroom examples to educate future generations of professionals who can push for changes in the industry. This partnership also helps the validation of experiments regarding LC implementation, as data can be collected and analyzed in a scientific way, and can be documented for dissemination within the industry.Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 The paper discusses challenges related to the evolution of LC in the industry, with the aim of forming a basis for an informed discussion on how to promote sustained and informed learning in construction.']
['Chavez, Jenina Joy & Piper, Nicola', 'The Reluctant Leader: The Philippine Journey from Labor Export to Championing a Rights-Based Approach to Overseas Employment', 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S2053-769720150000024013', ' Abstract At global fora which discuss the regulation of international migration the Philippine government is typically hailed a \xe2\x80\x9cgood practice example\xe2\x80\x9d for its institutional as well as legal framework and proactive interest in the welfare of its citizens. The Philippine history of migration policy making is indeed shaped by a shift from \xe2\x80\x9cexporting workers\xe2\x80\x9d to an increasingly comprehensive rights-sensitive approach that addresses most aspects of migration: the regulation of recruitment agencies, pre-migration training, insurance systems, overseas voting rights, consular services, social rights of the left behind, and re-integration of returned migrants. This state of affairs, however, has not always been like that and is largely the result of activism by the vibrant migrant rights movement in the Philippines which reaches across the world. The case of the Philippine also shows mixed approaches to government-social movement relations, characterized by both pressure politics and critical engagement. Considerable gaps and loopholes remain in this web of rights-based policy aspects. Structural weaknesses are major problems that need to be addressed if labor migration is to evolve into a truly choice-driven economic decision. Still, comparatively and historically speaking, the Philippines have come a long way. The combined effects of leadership from below and leadership from above had led to some concrete results \xe2\x80\x93 even if far from perfect \xe2\x80\x93 in the betterment of many migrants\xe2\x80\x99 lives. ']
['Chowdhury, Mohammad A.', 'The necessity to incorporate TQM and QA study into the undergraduate chemistry/science/engineering curriculum', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/TQM-06-2012-0043 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to define the necessity of total quality management (TQM) and quality assurance (QA) study into the undergraduate chemistry/science/engineering curriculum based on the consideration of current declining trend of science education, lack of social, business and technological implications with science, and for students to perceive science knowledge as useful, interesting and relevant. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The course design is outlined as an integrated and part of the science curriculum where \xe2\x80\x9cstudent-centred\xe2\x80\x9d and participative \xe2\x80\x9cinquiry-based\xe2\x80\x9d learning approaches is suggested to teach TQM and QA. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 TQM and QA provide the opportunity to learn applied science and associated business consequences, enhance student motivation and engagements, improves decision-making and problem-solving abilities. Students become creative, develop thinking capability in a structured and logical way to express views, and evidently their knowledge-building efforts become apparent. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 The impetus of the \xe2\x80\x9cunit course\xe2\x80\x9d design is to focus on the fundamental concepts and understanding of TQM and QA, develop basic knowledge and practices, and explain quality system development and continuous improvement process. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 TQM and QA study help students easily accommodate into the workforce; and enhance employability. Students achieve higher awareness of the social implications of science studies, better prepared to become future informed citizens, and take responsibility. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 The paper discusses the rationale of TQM and QA study in the undergraduate course, and explains the underlying causes for not being receptive in the higher education. The paper discusses implicated contents and issues related to TQM and QA required to consider for implementation and, in context of the outlined course.']
['Collins, Jenny & Allender, Tim', 'Knowledge transfer, educational change and the history of education: New theoretical frameworks', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/HER-10-2012-0036 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to present a theoretical overview of the field of knowledge transfer and educational change and a discussion of the issues raised in the six papers in this special edition. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 A theoretical analysis of the field of knowledge transfer. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The six papers consider issues such as the interplay of ideas between British and Indian educationalists, post-war debates over literacy standards, the use of curriculum materials for the process of citizen formation, the influence of international exchanges in the education of adolescents for citizenship, Vigotsky and the transfer of knowledge across time, space, culture, disciplines and networks, and the way constructions of Chinese identity within history books were shaped by knowledge processes that transcended nation states. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This special issue of the History of Education Review engages with new approaches that have become available to historians in the past decade illustrating how they might be applied for the first time to key issues in the history of education across colonial and state borders. It addresses questions about the movement of knowledge across national and cultural boundaries, and examines key problems facing educators in a range of colonial and postcolonial contexts.']
['Correa, C. R. & Cagnin, C. H.', 'Prospective games for defence strategic decisions in Brazil', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/FS-07-2014-0047 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 This paper aims to propose a model, based on strategic simulation and scenario planning, to improve the decision-making process in the Brazilian defence area. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Participants are disposed in three levels: decision-makers team \xe2\x80\x93 which goes beyond the Ministry of Defence (and military services) alone and includes other representatives of the executive and legislative branches; political and strategic advisory team \xe2\x80\x93 civilian representatives with a broad understanding of the national and international contexts that can contribute to developing insights and shaping the forces that may contribute to the nation\xe2\x80\x99s future; and experts database\xe2\x80\x94 experts in fields of interest to national defence, comprising representatives of several sectors and broad areas of knowledge, including scholars, scientists, politicians, military, industry, among others. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The planning and preparation of national defence strategies require a long-term approach, which is multidisciplinary, participatory and contextualized to the geopolitical and institutional frames of the country. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 However, despite many policy papers intentions, defence issues have always been considered a matter for the military arena due to the country\xe2\x80\x99s cultural background. Practical/implications \xe2\x80\x93 Because decisions about defence have long-range impacts and political implications, policy-makers should shape them bearing in mind a complex and politically shared foresight process. Social/implications \xe2\x80\x93 This proposed planning process enables a participatory engagement with some civil organizations and individuals as well as amplifies their commitment in national defence issues. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 The proposal is innovative in South America, considering that it encompasses integrated simulations on participatory foresight processes as well as broadened the civilian\xe2\x80\x93military dynamic relationship and the diverse viewpoints in defence implications analysis to include a wider share of the Brazilian society.']
['Cramer, Renee Ann', "\xe2\x80\x9cDon't they Understand Judicial Independence?\xe2\x80\x9d Discourses of Judging in Undergraduate Legal Studies Classrooms: Judicial Retention and Same-Sex Marriage Rulings", 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S1059-4337%282012%290000058006', "Undergraduate legal studies classrooms are ideal places in which to engage discourses on judging, and to invite students to analyze and understand contemporary cultural and political representations of the proper roles of judges and judging in democracies. This chapter examines undergraduate understandings of judicial independence and judicial activism, via class discussions surrounding the judicial retention election in Iowa in 2010. The election was occasioned by the groundbreaking state supreme court case Varnum et al. v. Brien (2009), legalizing same-sex marriage in the state. Drawing on participant\xe2\x80\x93observation research as a professor in these courses, and examining student dialogue, class discussion, and web-board postings on the topic, I find that legal studies students are able to articulate a complex range of views regarding the judiciary, judicial activism, and same-sex marriage. Their ability to engage in (mostly) civil discourse on the topic of judging is of particular societal importance, given the limitations of contemporary public discourses about judging. These findings point, as well, to the potential role for engaged academics in expanding and contextualizing public conversations about judicial independence, judicial activism, and rights. The chapter also highlights, however, limits in that educational experience, in particular students' lionization of legal processes, simultaneous to their cynicism about, and lack of engagement in, electoral/political processes. This points to the development of interdisciplinary legal studies curricula as a means toward effective education for democracy."]
['Cress, Christine M.; Yamashita, Miki; Duarte, Rebecca & Burns, Heather', 'A transnational comparison of service\xe2\x80\x90learning as a tool for leadership development', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/19348831011046281 \n', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 This investigation sought to identify learning outcomes for undergraduate students at a US college enrolled in community\xe2\x80\x90based learning courses. Specifically, the purpose of this paper is to examine the similarities and differences between American students' and international students' development of leadership skills through senior level service\xe2\x80\x90learning (SL) courses and analyzed the role of teaching methods on those outcomes.Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Over 150 SL courses from students representing 30 countries were examined at a major university in the USA. US and non\xe2\x80\x90US student leadership and learning outcomes were cross\xe2\x80\x90tabulated with instructional techniques to analyze for statistically significant differences.Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Facilitating leadership skill development is a function of utilizing transformational rather than traditional classroom teaching techniques.Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 Transformational teaching and learning methods such as collaborative projects, student\xe2\x80\x90selected readings, and group decision\xe2\x80\x90making in SL courses help transform students' views of themselves, their communities, and the world as they consider their roles as leaders in an unscripted future.Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Few studies have examined the instructional elements in SL that transform student knowledge and leadership skills especially across such a breadth and variety of SL courses and student cultural backgrounds."]
['Currie, Wendy L. & Finnegan, David J.', 'The policy\xe2\x80\x90practice nexus of electronic health records adoption in the UK NHS: An institutional analysis', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/17410391111106284 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 This paper seeks to report the findings from a seven\xe2\x80\x90year study on the UK National Health Service on the introduction of an electronic health record for 50 million citizens. It explores the relationship between policy and practice in the introduction of a large\xe2\x80\x90scale national ICT programme at an estimated value of \xc2\xa312.4bn.Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Using a longitudinal research method, data are collected on the policy\xe2\x80\x90practice nexus. The paper applies institutional theory using a conceptual model by Tolbert and Zucker on the component processes of institutionalisation.Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The findings suggest that institutional forces act as a driver and an inhibitor to introducing enabling technologies in the health\xe2\x80\x90care environment. A process analysis shows that, as electronic health records force disruptive change on clinicians, healthcare managers and patients, culturally embedded norms, values and behavioural patterns serve to impede the implementation process.Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 This research is limited in its generalisability to national, regional and local ICT implementations due to the complexity of the policy and practical issues at stake. Despite the longitudinal research approach, the use of institutional theory can only offer a flavour of how institutionalised values, norms and behaviours influence health IT policy and practice.Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 The paper demonstrates the complexity of translating centralised ICT policy in healthcare to practical solutions for clinicians and other stakeholders. It shows how a large\xe2\x80\x90scale ICT programme based on procurement of technology is unlikely to succeed where important issues of user engagement and a sound \xe2\x80\x9cbusiness case\xe2\x80\x9d have not been achieved.Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This research contributes to the theoretical literature on institutionalism by addressing the dichotomy between institutional and technical environments. While technology is often discussed in isolation of an institutional process, it may become embedded in organisational practices, reaching a process of sedimentation (institutionalisation) or fail to take hold and fade from view.']
['Dillard, Jesse & Brown, Judy', 'Broadening out and opening up: an agonistic attitude toward progressive social accounting', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/SAMPJ-09-2014-0055 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to review the current research program in agonistic dialogic accounting and to reflect on future possibilities for broadening out and opening up accounting and accountability systems, especially as they relate to social and environmental accounting (SEA). Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The authors describe an ethic of accountability as a context for dialogue and debate intended to broaden out and open up new imaginings of accounting for democracy. The authors review the accounting literature addressing dialogic accounting and agonistics as the precursor of what has evolved into agonistic dialogic accounting. The authors discuss their work to date on agonistic pluralism and engagement, recognizing the necessity of linking the normative framework to an effective political program. The authors review prior studies applying science and technology studies that have addressed these issues. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The authors consider how the application of agonistic ideas might facilitate the development of multiple accountings that take pluralism seriously by addressing constituencies and perspectives often marginalized in both SEA and mainstream accounting. An ethic of accountability and science and technology studies are useful for stimulating dialogue and debate regarding democratic and civil society institutions as they relate to economic entities, especially corporations. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 Agonistic dialogic accounting in conjunction with other disciplines such as science and technology studies can be used in formulating, implementing and evaluating policy for advancing a progressive social agenda. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 A reflective view of the current work in agonistic dialogic accounting highlights considerations for further research regarding the possible interdisciplinary work particularly with science and technology studies in broadening out and opening up accounting and accountability systems as facilitators of progressive social agenda.']
['Eaton, Jonathan', 'Conceptualising scholarship within college-based higher education', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/HESWBL-08-2014-0040 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 During a period of significant crisis within HE on a global scale, there is a clear need for colleges to clearly articulate the distinct nature of their higher vocational education provision. This need is particularly acute given the current financial and political pressures impacting on a diverse HE landscape. The purpose of this paper is to argue that colleges are well placed to develop and implement an approach to scholarly activity which revitalises links with local communities. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 This paper provides a synthesis of recent research on scholarly activity within college-based higher education (CBHE) and the concept of a \xe2\x80\x9ccivic university\xe2\x80\x9d. It also provides a brief case study of how scholarship within the college context can be utilised to promote meaningful community engagement. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Working productively with community organisations, groups and individuals, colleges will be provoked to recast the complex relationship between teaching, research and community engagement in a manner appropriate to their immediate context rather than a national agenda. Moreover, a strengthened relationship between colleges and their local communities will recapture the rich heritage of vocational education in widening participation and raising aspirations towards education in general. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This paper attempts to relocate current discussions of CBHE scholarly activity within the context of civic engagement. It will be of interest to colleagues across the higher vocational education sector, both nationally and internationally, in situating their institutional and departmental scholarly activity strategies within the context of the communities which they serve.']
['Ehrlich, Matthias; Woodward, David & Tiong, Robert', 'A state\xe2\x80\x90of\xe2\x80\x90practice survey on managing FX exposure in project companies, construction companies and SMEs', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/13664381211211037 \n', 'Financial support for this research received from The Leverhulme Trust is gratefully acknowledged.']
['Evoh, Chijioke J.', "Taming the Youth Bulge in Africa: Rethinking the World Bank's Policy on Technical and Vocational Education for Disadvantaged Youth in the Knowledge Economy", 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S1479-3679%282012%290000016019', 'This study presents an innovative approach to Information and communication technology (ICT) skill training and employment generation for out-of-school and disadvantaged youths in Africa. With technical and policy assistance from the World Bank, ICTs can be used to revitalize technical and vocational training to meet skill and employment needs of disadvantaged youths in the region. The deplorable conditions of out-of-school youth and the state of secondary education in Africa underscore the urgency to engage disadvantaged youth in productive economic activities. An ICT-enhanced technical and vocational training program in Africa provides both private and social gains: it provides economic prospects for disadvantaged youth and; it adds to the development of the knowledge economy in Africa. The NairoBits Digital Design School in Kenya is presented as a model of a vocational and training school that uses ICTs to improve skill formation among disadvantaged youths in informal settlements in urban Africa. Meeting the objectives of an ICT-based training and employment generation program for underprivileged youth in Africa require strong regulatory frameworks and contributions from the World Bank. The involvement of the bank, particularly through private sector grants for ICT skill train in Africa will help to revitalize technical and vocational education and training in the region. Above all, the collaboration of government agencies, private businesses, other international development agencies and civil society groups in ICT skill training will help to meaningfully engage African youths in the development of their communities in the emerging knowledge economy.']
['Farina, Cynthia R.; Epstein, Dmitry; Heidt, Josiah B. & Newhart, Mary J.', 'Regulation Room: Getting \xe2\x80\x9cmore, better\xe2\x80\x9d civic participation in complex government policymaking', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/TG-02-2013-0005 \n', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 Rulemaking (the process agencies use to make new health, safety, social and economic regulations) is one of the US Government's most important policymaking methods and has long been a target for e-government efforts. Although broad transparency and participation rights are part of its legal structure, significant barriers prevent effective engagement by many citizens. The paper aims to discuss these issues. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 RegulationRoom.org is an online experimental e-participation platform, designed and operated by Cornell e-rulemaking Initiative (CeRI), the cross-disciplinary CeRI. Using the Regulation Room as a case study, this paper addresses what capacities are required for effective civic engagement and how they can be nurtured and supported by an online participation system. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The research suggests that effectively designing and deploying technology, although essential, is only one dimension of realizing broader, better online civic engagement. Effective e-participation systems must be prepared to address procedural, social, and psychological barriers that impede citizens' meaningful participation in complex policymaking processes. The research also suggests the need for re-conceptualizing the value of broad civic participation to the policymaking processes and for recognizing that novice commenters engage with policy issues differently than experienced insiders. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 The paper includes a series of strategic recommendations for policymaking seeking public input. While it indicates that a broader range of citizens can indeed be meaningfully engaged, it also cautions that getting better participation from more people requires the investment of resources. More fundamental, both government decision makers and participation designers must be open to recognizing non-traditional forms of knowledge and styles of communication \xe2\x80\x93 and willing to devise participation mechanisms and protocols accordingly. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This paper describes lessons from a unique design-based research project with both practical and conceptual implications for more, better civic participation in complex government policymaking."]
['Ferguson, Laura', 'A world of social interaction for all', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/QAOA-11-2014-0032 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to highlight the actions needed and organisations to make a difference to the problem of loneliness in old age. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Draws on the work of the Campaign to End Loneliness in collaboration with hundreds of organisations worldwide to document what has been done so far and to provide exemplars and imagined case studies based on collected experience to identify potential relevant actions. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Many hundreds of organisations worldwide are recognising the need to support older peoples\xe2\x80\x99 connections and abilities to engage with their communities. However, these need to be better mapped and coordinated. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 Innovative work is already being done to tackle loneliness needs to be more systematically supported and promoted. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Identifies how much has already changed in terms of recognising and addressing loneliness but that a more comprehensive approach to support is needed.']
['Gatune, Julius & Najam, Adil', 'Africa 2060: what could be driving the good news from Africa?', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/14636681111138794 \n', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The aim of this paper is to better understand the good news coming from Africa and reflect on ideas discussed at the \xe2\x80\x9cAfrica 2060: Good News from Africa\xe2\x80\x9d conference in April 2010 organized by Boston University's Frederick S. Pardee Center for the Study of the Longer\xe2\x80\x90Range Future.Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Africa's performance over the last 50 years has been akin to a roller coaster ride of good news followed by bad news, with the bad news dominating. However since the dawn of the millennium Africa's outlook has increasingly become optimistic. As one looks at Africa's future, several questions emerge: which of these gains can be consolidated? Which of the positive trends will be sustained? Has this recent period of global attention provided the continent with a real institutional scaffolding on which a positive future can be built? And what needs to be done to ensure that the dangers of chronic poverty, conflict, and institutional collapse that still lurk in the shadows will be contained long enough that they eventually disappear?Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The authors base their observations on the intense discussions during the conference by practitioners and experts and an engaged and informed audience, plus a broader reading of the literature, including that which was presented at the conference. These observations reflect a locus of expert and informed opinion and provide a window into the priorities that are engaging the imaginations of those thinking deep and hard about Africa's future. The authors distill seven key drivers that are of particular importance in shaping Africa's longer\xe2\x80\x90range future. Of course, all of these can operate in either a positive or a negative direction. It is the decisions that will be made by African and international policy\xe2\x80\x90makers, businesses, civic organizations, and citizens today that will determine which direction Africa will be \xe2\x80\x9cdriven\xe2\x80\x9d towards tomorrow.Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 There are a number of exciting opportunities that await Africa in its future, but many of these also come with potential hurdles and pitfalls. Innovation, entrepreneurship, technology, knowledge, and globalization are among the areas that have generated significant good news to record from Africa. But within each of these areas there is also the potential and reality of bad news. The choice now lies with African citizens, decision makers and societies as to whether they are able to make the type of decisions that will control the negative tendencies of these drivers and accelerate the positive tendencies."]
['Guenzi, Paolo & Panzeri, Federico', 'How salespeople see organizational citizenship behaviors: an exploratory study using the laddering technique', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/JBIM-01-2013-0026 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to more thoroughly investigate the role of organizational citizenship behaviors (OCBs) in sales force settings and the reason why salespeople should practice OCBs. In fact, in spite of the huge body of literature on OCBs and their impact on performance, some important knowledge gaps still remain to be filled. Inconsistent and unexpected findings are particularly apparent in the relatively few studies investigating OCBs in sales forces. The authors argue that some specific characteristics of the selling job and related tasks make the analysis of the practice of these behaviors in the sales context particularly interesting. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The authors explore which OCBs salespeople engage in, and analyze the perceived consequences of such behaviors using means-end theory and the laddering technique. They apply means-end theory and the laddering technique to interview a sample of salespersons from three companies operating in different business-to-business settings. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The end result of the empirical analysis is the hierarchical value map showing a set of linkages among OCBs and their perceived consequences. In the perceptions of salespeople, OCBs play a strong utilitarian role in that they facilitate personal goal attainment. In salespeople\xe2\x80\x99s minds, there are no relevant trade-offs between OCBs and task-performance as long as the former can be used to improve the latter. For salespeople, the path from OCBs to performance may vary, depending on whether the performance in question is organizational, individual or customer-focused. Finally, some OCBs apparently contribute to creating customer trust in the salesperson. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 The findings add some interesting insights to the discussion regarding some controversies in OCBs literature, especially the interplay of contextual performance and task performance. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 Various types of OCBs can be encouraged through different managerial interventions. As an example, altruism can be fostered by appropriate recruiting criteria (e.g. using \xe2\x80\x9cattitude toward teamwork\xe2\x80\x9d as a key personnel selection factor), and by training initiatives and leadership style. Altruism can also be stimulated by an adequately designed organizational structure (e.g. team-based) as well as by adopting appropriate integration mechanisms that facilitate interpersonal and interfunctional cooperation. Sales managers can foster some OCBs by promoting knowledge sharing and reciprocal learning among members of the sales team, and by emphasizing the positive consequences of OCBs in all communication with salespeople. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Findings from this study challenge some widespread assumptions about OCBs in general. In fact, most of the literature holds that OCBs are an example of prosocial behaviors. Actually, the findings suggest that in the specific case of salespeople, OCBs are ultimately self-directed, for the most part.']
['Gupta, Jaya; Hassiotis, Angela; Bohnen, Ingrid & Thakker, Yogesh', 'Application of community treatment orders (CTOs) in adults with intellectual disability and mental disorders', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/AMHID-02-2015-0007 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to explore use of community treatment orders (CTOs) in adults with intellectual disability (ID) and mental health problems across England and Wales. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 A web-based exploratory survey was sent to 359 consultants on the database of the Faculty of the Psychiatry of ID, Royal College of Psychiatrists who had declared ID as their main speciality. Socio-demographic details of responding consultants, clinical characteristics of adults with ID on CTO, subjective views of consultants on using CTOs in people with ID were collected and analysed. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 In total, 94 consultant questionnaires were returned providing information on 115 patients detained under CTO. More than 75 per cent of the respondents had used CTO in their clinical practice. Patients subject to CTO were generally young, white males with mild ID and living in supported accommodation. CTOs were primarily used in situations of non-engagement (52.2 per cent), non-compliance with medication (47 per cent) or non-compliance with social care supports (49.6 per cent). Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 Responding consultants expressed concerns about encroachment of civil liberties and ethics of using CTOs in people with ID who may lack capacity and stressed that decision to use CTOs needs to be therefore done on individual basis. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This is the first national study to examine the practice of applying CTOs in adults with ID and mental disorders. Current practice is based on evidence from research done in adults with normal intelligence. Further research is needed to investigate the utility of CTOs in routine clinical practice in adults with ID and mental disorders.']
['Hayles, Carolyn S.; Dean, Moira; Lappin, Sarah A. & McCullough, Jane E.', 'Climate change adaptation: A decision support framework to encourage environmentally responsible behaviour', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/SASBE-11-2012-0059 \n', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 In this paper, the authors present the Awareness Behaviour Intervention Action (ABIA) framework, a new system developed by them to support environmentally responsible behaviour (ERB). Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Previous ERB programmes have failed to deliver lasting results; they have not appropriately understood and provided systems to address ERB (Costanzo et al., 1986). The ABIA framework has been developed in line with behavioural studies in other disciplines. A preliminary pilot study has been carried out with social housing residents in order to understand the framework's efficacy. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The ABIA framework enables a better understanding of current attitudes to environmental issues and provides support for ERB alongside technological interventions employed to promote carbon reduction. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 The ABIA framework could be tested on individuals and communities in a variety of socio-economic, political and cultural contexts. This will help unpack how it can impact on the behaviours of individuals and communities including stakeholders. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 This type of research and the ABIA framework developed from it are crucial if the EU is to reduce is domestic carbon footprint and if the UK is to meet its pledge to become the first country in the world in which all new homes from 2016 are to be zero carbon. Social implications \xe2\x80\x93 The framework encourages both individual and community engagement in solving of sustainability issues. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 There are few studies that have developed a framework which can be used in practice to support behavioural change for adaptation to sustainable living in low- or zero-carbon homes."]
['Henderson, Deborah J. & Tudball, Elizabeth J.', 'Democratic and participatory citizenship: youth action for sustainability in Australia', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/AEDS-06-2015-0028 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to provide a critical analysis of recent examples of action competence among young people engaged in democratic participatory action in sustainability programs in Australia. It explores examples of priorities identified for citizen action, the forms this action takes and the ways that democratic participation can achieve positive outcomes for future sustainability. It suggests multiple ways for developing action competence that provides further opportunities for authentic and engaging citizen action for youth connected to school- and community-based learning, in new and powerful ways. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 This conceptual paper examines international literature on the theory of \xe2\x80\x9caction competence,\xe2\x80\x9d its significance for education for sustainability (EfS) and the ways it can inform education for young people\xe2\x80\x99s democratic participatory citizenship and civic engagement. It analyses examples of the development of action competency among young people in Australia, including the problems and priorities identified for citizen action, the forms this action takes and how it can achieve positive outcomes for sustainability. Following this analysis, the paper suggests multiple ways for developing action competence in EfS in schools and communities in new and powerful ways. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Developing EfS to increase democratic and participatory action among young citizens is now widely regarded as an urgent education priority. There are growing exemplars of school and community organizations\xe2\x80\x99 involvement in developing EfS learning and teaching to increase participatory citizenship. Young people are being empowered to develop a greater sense of agency through involvement in programs that develop action competence with a focus on sustainability in and out of school. New forms of participation include student action teams and peer collaboration among youth who are marshaling social media and direction action to achieve change. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 It contributes to the literature on multiple ways for developing action competence in EfS.']
['Hill, Valerie', 'Digital citizenship through game design in Minecraft', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/NLW-09-2014-0112 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 This study aims to describe a library project exploring innovative options for embedding information literacy skills in the elementary school library by utilizing Minecraft, a virtual world three-dimensional (3D) building game environment. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The small-scale descriptive study, with a follow-up survey, focuses on a group of fifth-grade students in an after-school technology club facilitated by the school librarian. The students designed and built a 3D virtual world library game for younger students to help them learn digital citizenship and information literacy. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Analysis of observations, interviews and videos indicated that students were highly engaged in learning information literacy elements throughout all stages of the project from design, building, implementation and testing of younger students. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 Although the small number of students enrolled in the club is a limitation, the feedback provided strong evidence of motivation for learning through gamification. Further research could assess learning outcomes with the curriculum, specifically for digital citizenship and information literacy. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 Embedding information literacy into a 3D world allows students to learn computer code, mathematics, game design, and fosters collaboration while demonstrating digital citizenship. Social implications \xe2\x80\x93 Game design requires teamwork, a real-life skill essential for students entering the work force. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Few articles share student-designed solutions of critical information literacy needs. This study exemplifies constructivist learning in a gaming environment.']
['Hoff-Clausen, Elisabeth & Ihlen, \xc3\x98yvind', 'The Rhetorical Citizenship of Corporations in the Digital Age', 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S2043-052320150000007003', ' Abstract  Purpose The prime goal of this chapter is to discuss what the notion of rhetorical citizenship as a normative aspiration might entail for corporations.   Methodology/approach The chapter draws on a pilot study of the Facebook pages of two banks. A rhetorical criticism of these pages was conducted.   Findings We suggest that while corporations are assuredly entities very different from the individual citizens who hold civil, social, and political rights \xe2\x80\x93 which do not directly apply to corporations \xe2\x80\x93 rhetorical citizenship is nevertheless a suggestive and constructive metaphor for corporations to communicate by.   Research limitations/implications Rhetorical citizenship for corporations must, we argue, be(come) rooted in organizational reality, and should involve a continued critical questioning as to what might constitute citizenly communication for corporations under any given circumstances. The chapter is, however, built on limited data from a pilot study and needs to be complemented.   Practical implications We suggest from our pilot study that the active engagement of corporations in social media may currently be seen as one form of rhetorical citizenship that the public expects corporations to enact. Thus, we argue, corporations in general might as well attempt to do their best to act as rhetorical citizens.   Originality/value The chapter highlights how communication is a set of practices in which social responsibility must be enacted. We find that this is not a prevalent perspective in the existing literature on CSR and communication.  ']
['Hossain, Mokter & Kauranen, Ilkka', 'Crowdsourcing: a comprehensive literature review', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/SO-12-2014-0029 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to explore the development of crowdsourcing literature. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 This study is a comprehensive review of 346 articles on crowdsourcing. Both statistical and contents analyses were conducted in this paper. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 ISI listed journal articles, non-ISI listed journal articles and conference articles have had nearly the same contribution in crowdsourcing literature. Articles published in non-ISI listed journals have had an essential role in the initial theory development related to crowdsourcing. Scholars from the USA have authored approximately the same number of articles as scholars from all the European countries combined. Scholars from developing countries have been more relatively active in authoring conference articles than journal articles. Only very recently, top-tier journals have engaged in publishing on crowdsourcing. Crowdsourcing has proven to be beneficial in many tasks, but the extant literature does not give much help to practitioners in capturing value from crowdsourcing. Despite understanding that the motivations of crowds are crucial when planning crowdsourcing activities, the various motivations in different contexts have not been explored sufficiently. A major concern has been the quality and accuracy of information that has been gathered through crowdsourcing. Crowdsourcing bears a lot of unused potential. For example, it can increase employment opportunities to low-income people in developing countries. On the other hand, more should be known of fair ways to organize crowdsourcing so that solution seekers do not get a chance to exploit individuals committing to provide solutions. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 The literature included in the study is extensive, but an all-inclusive search for articles was limited to only nine selected publishers. However, in addition to the articles retrieved from the nine selected publishers, 52 highly cited articles were also included from other publishers. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 Crowdsourcing has much unused potential, and the use of crowdsourcing is increasing rapidly. The study provides a thematic review of various applications of crowdsourcing. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 The study is the first of its kind to explore the development of crowdsourcing literature, discussing the loci and foci of extant articles and listing applications of crowdsourcing. Successful applications of crowdsourcing include idea generation, microtasking, citizen science, public participation, wikies, open source software and citizen journalism.']
['Hove, Mediel; Nyamunda, Tinashe & Mukwambo, Patience', 'Violent state operations at Chiadzwa (Zimbabwe) diamond fields 2006-2009', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/JACPR-11-2012-0014 \n', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to investigate the debilitating socio-economic impact caused by the diamonds at Chiadzwa area in Zimbabwe on the illegal mining community that emerged and inhabited the hills of Chiadzwa between 2006 and the beginning of 2009. The research was carried out for academic proposes, as an advocacy strategy to expose the abuses and violent state operations perpetrated by the security forces. In addition, it intends to equip policy makers and implementers about the heavy handedness of Zimbabwe's security sector during its operations in the area in an effort to enable policy implementers to defend the rights of the affected people at Chiadzwa. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The methodology engaged was chiefly qualitative and the study was a product of primary sources (especially in-depth interviews) and secondary sources (text books, journal articles, newspapers and the internet). Purposive and snowballing sampling techniques were used to collect the data between 2007 and 2009. Collected data were analysed and compiled between 2009 and 2013. Some of the names used in this study for our respondents are pseudo and this was done to ensure anonymity and secure the providers of information against possible retribution. On the other hand real names were used in particular where violent state driven operations were discussed. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Initially the government of Zimbabwe was reluctant to intervene in the illegal extraction of diamonds in search of political leverage. Later it responded with violent manipulative strategies and operations with detrimental consequences on the illegal miners. The brutal strategies employed by individuals and the state led to injury, illness and death of people amid a harsh socio-economic environment. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 A number of respondents preferred to use pseudonyms because they feared that information collected could be used against them. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 The study is a good example of conflict between the state machinery and its citizens over a natural resource. It reveals excessive use of force by the state which appears to be the norm in other countries where diamonds are dubbed \xe2\x80\x9cblood diamonds\xe2\x80\x9d. Social implications \xe2\x80\x93 In the midst of the diamond-related violence a new and vibrant social identity emerged commonly referred to as magweja. The area experienced challenges especially with regards to the provision of health services and the traditional use of herbs was endangered by the destruction of vegetation. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 It reveals a milieu, state regulation enforcement and security agents, magombiro (armed robbers or murderers) all who discharged violence on magweja the foremost victims of the violent systems and practices. In addition, it encourages policy markers and implementers to devise non-violent strategies when dealing with illegal exploitation of natural resources."]
['Hull, Richard', 'Chapter 7 Radical Dreams Soured by Elite Patronage: The Role of Clientelism in Steering UK Broadband Campaigns', 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S2046-6072%282011%290000001020', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 This chapter describes how radical aims for community-owned broadband became compromised by the consequences of clientelism and elite patronage as some campaigners engaged in lobbying government.Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Five years of participant observation and an auto-ethnographic methodology richly describe the author's involvement in a community broadband co-operative, various regional and national support groups and finally with a national group conducting campaigning, research and co-ordination activities for community ownership of Next Generation Access broadband.Findings \xe2\x80\x93 This illustrates the difficulties faced by Third Sector and Civil Society organisations attempting to engage in lobbying activities in the same manner as conventional commercial lobbyists. In particular, it describes how lobbying necessitates a complex interlocking of activities, such as research, consultancy, conference organisation and other such forms of networking; and it describes how all of these activities can become subordinated to the interests of political patrons. It also suggests that the uncertainty around the meanings and relevance of the Third Sector/Civil Society has allowed the entry of older forms of exerting power such as clientelism and patronage.Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 Further research is needed into a much larger group of organisations to examine the processes by which Third Sector and Civil Society groups engage with government.Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 The chapter uniquely applies Critical Management Studies and a political studies perspective on clientelism and patronage to the analysis of Third Sector and Civil Society organisations."]
['Jain, Rajul & Winner, Lawrence H.', 'CSR and sustainability reporting practices of top companies in India', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/CCIJ-09-2014-0061 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to contribute an international perspective to corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability (Sus) discussions by examining CSR/Sus reporting practices of the 200 largest state-owned and private companies in India. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The authors conduct a case study at the Danish carpet manufacturer EGE. The authors interpret the case from the perspective of pragmatic constructivism, which focusses on the integration of four dimensions: facts, possibilities, values, and communication. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The analyses showed that while most companies share CSR/Sus information through their websites they associate different levels of importance to this communication. However, the study found that overall the CSR/Sus climate in India is showing signs of positive reform. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 Being among the first, this study provides a framework for future studies to continue exploring CSR/Sus context in India, a country that despite its growing importance and influence has been largely ignored in the CSR/Sus literature. Practical/implications \xe2\x80\x93 The study outlines the current CSR/Sus reporting trends and best practices in India that can help managers and organizations identify issues and topics that they could channel their resources and efforts into to maximize returns and benefits in this area. Social/implications \xe2\x80\x93 This study provides insights into how corporations in an emerging and complex economy such as India are assuming roles of corporate citizens and are actively using web-based communication to engage and interact with stakeholders on issues that are of general concern. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 The value of this study is in providing empirical insights into the strategies that Indian companies use to report on their CSR/Sus policies and commitments. The study is among the first to examine CSR in India from a sustainability perspective, and evaluate compliance with global reporting standards among top corporations.']
['Jepson, Allan; Clarke, Alan & Ragsdell, Gillian', 'Applying the motivation-opportunity-ability (MOA) model to reveal factors that influence inclusive engagement within local community festivals: The case of UtcaZene 2012', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/IJEFM-06-2013-0011 \n', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to debate on community engagement and participation in local community festivals and events by empirically analysing the factors which either inhibit or facilitate engagement. The application of the motivation-opportunity-ability (MOA) model to the analysis of community festivals is an important contribution. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Recognising the complexity associated with community participation in festivals produced a set of four research questions which are addressed via a mixed methodology research design. The model was then tested using four key data collection methods including the interviews and the questionnaires analysed within this paper. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The MOA model can be seen as an appropriate framework with which to analyse community engagement in a local community festival setting, in the case of \xe2\x80\x9cThe Utcazene-Fesztival\xe2\x80\x9d, a Street Music Festival in Veszpr\xc3\xa9m, Hungary. Community participation is often interpreted quite simply as a way of involving local people in community planning and development. However, within the realm of community festivals and events the reality reveals a multitude of stakeholder webs and interconnected decision-making processes within a multi-faceted phenomenon. The paper reflects on the value of the MOA model to guide analysis within event studies and further considers the methodological challenges that the study brings to events studies. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 This paper presents two key data sets as part of a broader study of the MOA model. Due to size restrictions only the primary data derived through qualitative interviews and quantitative questionnaires are analysed here. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Currently there is limited understanding, agreement and research within community engagement remains an increasingly important area of academic enquiry. This particular paper explores the central concepts of inclusivity and engagement which can be considered as fundamental to the creation of successful community festivals and events. The paper begins by defining community festivals and events; it builds on Jepson and Clarke's (2012) work on developing inclusive community festivals and events through inclusive participation within the planning and decision making process."]
['Jones, Brian & Temperley, John', 'Leeds Shopping Week: a case study', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/17538331111176084 \n', 'The authors are grateful to the Leeds City Centre management team for their support throughout the life of this research project.']
['Karuri\xe2\x80\x90Sebina, Geci & Rosenzweig, Lee', 'A case study on localising foresight in South Africa: using foresight in the context of local government participatory planning', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/14636681211210341 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 This paper aims to present the process and results of a local\xe2\x80\x90level South African action research project on introducing foresight methods into a local government planning process.Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The paper outlines the evolutionary process followed, and documents the practical insights gained and lessons learnt in relation to the concept of pro\xe2\x80\x90poor foresight.Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Positive outcomes in the King Sabata Dalindyebo (KSD) foresight process included a high level of stakeholder engagement and senior management buy\xe2\x80\x90in, supported by positive evaluations by diverse participants. The learning was subsequently incorporated into long\xe2\x80\x90term development plans and proposals such as the ten\xe2\x80\x90year development plan for the region. The experience yielded key lessons about the recruitment of participants, policy alignment, communication in diversity, active participation, facilitation as learning, the influence of technical inputs, and the importance of integration.Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 Further academic research could build upon this case study to investigate longer\xe2\x80\x90term impacts of the initiative in KSD, tracking replications and adaptations of the KSD experiment, comparative research between contexts where foresight is used and where it is not in development policy and planning processes, enquiry into how foresight might be formally incorporated in the routine development policy and planning processes of municipalities, and undertaking more theoretical enquiry on the \xe2\x80\x9clocalising foresight\xe2\x80\x9d concept and experience, including the development of guiding criteria and indicators for procedural and outcome success.Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 The case focuses on learning in a developing world context where foresight is less advanced than in other contexts. The results of the exercise in KSD suggest that it is possible to embed pro\xe2\x80\x90poor foresight in a large\xe2\x80\x90scale policy programme to enhance the resilience of communities, supported by appropriate plans and budgets.Social implications \xe2\x80\x93 The long\xe2\x80\x90term nature of foresight can create a \xe2\x80\x9csafe\xe2\x80\x9d platform for an otherwise difficult engagement, as is this case where three levels of government and various segments of civil society are to be beneficially engaged.Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This was a unique action research project in South Africa, where foresight has tended to be mainly at a top or central level \xe2\x80\x93 that being the level of corporate executives, national government, or national\xe2\x80\x90level stakeholders.']
['Khan, Zaheer; Ludlow, David; Loibl, Wolfgang & Soomro, Kamran', 'ICT enabled participatory urban planning and policy development: The UrbanAPI project', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/TG-09-2013-0030 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The aim of this paper is to present the effectiveness of participatory information and communication technology (ICT) tools for urban planning, in particular, supporting bottom-up decision-making in urban management and governance. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 This work begins with a presentation on the state of the art literature on the existing participatory approaches and their contribution to urban planning and the policymaking process. Furthermore, a case study, namely, the UrbanAPI project, is selected to identify new visualisation and simulation tools applied at different urban scales. These tools are applied in four different European cities \xe2\x80\x93 Vienna, Bologna, Vitoria-Gasteiz and Ruse \xe2\x80\x93 with the objective to identify the data needs for application development, commonalities in requirements of such participatory tools and their expected impact in policy and decision-making processes. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The case study presents three planning applications: three-dimensional Virtual Reality at neighbourhood scale, Public Motion Explorer at city-wide scale and Urban Growth Simulation at city-region scale. UrbanAPI applications indicate both active and passive participation secured by applying these tools at different urban scales and hence facilitate evidence-based urban planning decision-making. Structured engagement with the city administrations indicates commonalities in user needs and application requirements creating the potential for the development of generic features in these ICT tools which can be applied to many other cities throughout Europe. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This paper presents new ICT-enabled participatory urban planning tools at different urban scales to support collaborative decision-making and urban policy development. Various technologies are used for the development of these IT tools and applied to the real environment of four European cities.']
['Kosmala, Katarzyna & Sebastyanski, Roman', "The roles of artists\xe2\x80\x99 collective in the Gdansk Shipyard's heritage protection", 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/JCHMSD-10-2012-0050 \n', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The main objective of this paper is to analyse the roles of the artists\xe2\x80\x99 collective in the creation of socially shared knowledge, concerning Gdansk Shipyard's heritage protection during the urban regeneration process over last ten years, since 2002. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The empirical section of the paper is based on a single case study concerning the artists collective\xe2\x80\x99 ability to build a complex network of social relations, to research cultural heritage of the Gdansk Shipyard, to translate this knowledge into symbolic languages through art-based work and to transmit knowledge to the wider public with an aim to engage in an open dialogic public communication. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The case study draws on insights from participant observation carried out on the premises of the Gdansk Shipyard between years 2000 and 2008 and interviews with individual artists from the collective, conducted between years 2004 and 2006. Data was also drawn from archival research. The exposure in public media was also examined over last ten years, including Internet websites as well as newspapers and magazines\xe2\x80\x99 content. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 The case study research indicates that methods and techniques applied by the artists\xe2\x80\x99 collective in researching the shipyard's historical heritage and communicating their findings to the wider public have been more effective than the official planning methods of expert-led post-industrial urban regeneration. Over the last ten years, the artists have succeeded to transform the negative perceptions about the values of the shipyard's cultural heritage and engaged local citizens in the preservation of the historical identities of the place. In 2012, the Mayor of Gdansk has invited representatives of the artists\xe2\x80\x99 collective to the newly established Young City Stakeholders\xe2\x80\x99 Board in order to utilize their knowledge of the shipyard's cultural heritage and their capacity to mediate between various groups involved in urban regeneration planning process as well as to communicate with the wider public. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 Despite persistent views in literature that equate public engagement in the planning process of urban regeneration with a kind of \xe2\x80\x9cmodern utopia\xe2\x80\x9d, we argue that participatory process is not only possible in practice but also can be highly effective and democratically ethical."]
['Lee, Sang M.; Hwang, Taewon & Choi, Donghyun', 'Open innovation in the public sector of leading countries', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/00251741211194921 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this study is to examine the current open innovation practices in the public sector of leading countries.Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Using a framework based on the role of the government in open innovation, this study analyses a profile of early open innovation adopters based on collected data from secondary sources.Findings \xe2\x80\x93 First, the USA, Australia and Singapore developed open innovation policies at the national level, facilitating a positive innovation climate. Many projects, especially those in online platforms, were established under these policies. Second, although outside\xe2\x80\x90in open innovation principles seem to be popular, there have been emerging attempts to exploit the value of government data through inside\xe2\x80\x90out approaches.Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 Most governments are in the early stages of adoption of open innovation and are in the process of understanding relevant issues. Future research should investigate how governments adopt open innovation, in particular inside\xe2\x80\x90out initiatives.Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 Governments should develop an overarching strategic plan, which would help its employees to recognise that new change is consistent with the needs of their workplace practices. Some organizations and projects led by citizens help the government engage external ideas in solving issues that are beyond its control.Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This study is the first attempt to examine the current open innovation policies at the government level.']
['Lee, Seow Ting & Desai, Mallika Hemant', 'Dialogic communication and media relations in non-governmental organizations', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/JCOM-07-2012-0059 \n', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to seek to clarify the conceptual building blocks of relationship building between non-governmental groups (NGOs) and news media, which is essential for the development of civil society where dialogue is a product of ongoing communication and relationships. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The paper is based on an online survey with a sample size of 296 NGOs from India. The data are analyzed with SPSS to test six hypotheses related to dialogic orientation, media relations, relationship quality and the NGOs\xe2\x80\x99 structural characteristics. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The study found that an organization's dialogic orientation has a positive impact on media relations knowledge and strategy but not on the action dimension that focusses on providing information subsidies to journalists. A stronger dialogic orientation is also associated with better organization-media relationships. A stronger engagement in media relations also has a more positive impact on the quality of organization-media relationship. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 The findings of this study are limited to a sample of NGOs from India. Future research should address more diverse samples to better understand the dynamics of media relations in NGOs, and how their patterns of media relations, use of information subsidies, culture and media choice shape news coverage and their impact in developing civil society. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 By approaching media relations from an organizational perspective to investigate media relations in the NGO sector to address an under-researched area, the study is able to draw out the significant relationships between and among three distinct and yet connected conceptual building blocks of public relations."]
['Leung, Mei\xe2\x80\x90Yung; Yu, Jingyu & Yu, Shiwang', 'Investigating key components of the facilities management of residential care and attention homes', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/02632771211270586 \n', 'The work described in this paper was fully supported by a grant from CityU (Project No. 7008027).']
['Lin, Peyina', 'Information literacy barriers: language use and social structure', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/07378831011096222 \n', "The author gives thanks to Gifford Cheung and John Marino for their feedback; to Marisa Duarte for her discussions; to Dr Christine Bruce for clarifying her perspectives of educational approaches to information literacy; and to Michael Eisenberg for always supporting the author's works. The empirical data described in this paper are based on work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. SES\xe2\x80\x900927291."]
['Mahadkar, Sameedha; Mills, Grant & Price, Andrew D.F.', 'Stakeholder consultation practices within healthcare infrastructure planning: A conceptual approach to strategic asset management', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/20441241211280882 \n', 'The authors would like to thank the Engineering Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) for funding this research through the Health and Care Infrastructre Research and Innovation Centre (HaCIRIC).']
['Marchiori, Elena & Cantoni, Lorenzo', 'Including Augmented Reality in Tourism Education Programs', 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S1571-504320150000021006', ' Abstract This chapter outlines an augmented reality project developed as part of a master\xe2\x80\x99s course on eTourism within a curriculum. It discusses opportunities to foster community engagement with local tourism actors and experiential learning for international students. It also contributes to the literature on experiential education in this field. Moreover, the chapter discusses cross-cultural learning implications as international students were asked to study a local destination. Results show how the introduction of a practical project into the tourism curriculum proved to provide better learning of the application of eTourism, and a powerful pedagogical approach to raise global citizenship awareness. ']
['Martin, Collins & Colin, King', 'The disruption of crime in Scotland through non-conviction based asset forfeiture', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/JMLC-07-2013-0023 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 Targeting criminal assets plays a key role in tackling crime, yet there is a notable absence of research on the operation and impact of this approach. This article calls for greater engagement between policymakers, practitioners and researchers to address this. Using experiences from Scotland, the article focuses on the use of civil recovery and identifies a number of areas that are in need of further research. This paper aims to discuss these issues. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 This article is a collaborative effort by a member of the Scottish Civil Recovery Unit and an academic researcher. The aim was to stimulate debate on the use of civil recovery, its impact, and future research directions. It draws upon two case studies from Scotland to illustrate how civil recovery has operated in practice. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 There are important distinctions between the civil recovery regime in Scotland and the regime that applies in other parts of the UK (e.g. the absence of \xe2\x80\x9cincentivisation\xe2\x80\x9d). There is a need to consider how the impact of civil recovery can be measured, and there is scope for future research in this area. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 There is a notable absence of empirical research on civil recovery. The hope is that this article will lead to greater engagement between policymakers, practitioners and researchers. There is a need for empirical research on areas such as has civil recovery disrupted criminal activities, what intelligence gains does asset recovery bring, does asset recovery offer value for money, how is \xe2\x80\x9cimpact\xe2\x80\x9d to be measured, etc. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 As civil recovery increases in popularity as a form of crime control, this article calls for greater empirical research on the operation and impact of the civil process to tackling criminal assets. This is especially important today as the European Union is investigating the possibility of a European model of non-conviction based asset recovery. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Discussion of civil recovery under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 tends to focus on England and Wales. This article considers civil recovery from a Scottish perspective.']
['Martinelli, Alberto & Midttun, Atle', 'Globalization and governance for sustainability', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/14720701011021076 \n', 'Received 1 June 2009Revised 15 October 2009Accepted 1 November 2009']
['Matias, Audeliz; Aird, Sheila M. & Wolf, David F.', 'Innovative Teaching Methods for Using Multimedia Maps to Engage Students at a Distance', 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S2044-9968%282013%29000006F011', 'Advances in geospatial technology, web map interfaces, and other Web 2.0 tools provide new opportunities for educators to engage students in critical thinking, problem-solving, and collaborative skills. Although little attention has been given to learning from maps in higher education, knowledge of space is critical to attitudes and decision making as global citizens. Additionally, the ability to easily create multimedia maps offers new educational affordances for students at a distance and has the potential to link geographic and cultural understanding within the context of a variety of disciplines. We discuss the development of a mapping and blogging interactive learning environment, MapBlog, as a visual platform for representing information spatially. In this chapter, the MapBlog will be discussed as an interactive learning environment and as a visual platform for representing information spatially. We present and discuss four MapBlog categories: external content, student-created content, static content, and thematic.']
['McQueen, David', 'CSR and New Battle Lines in Online PR War: A Case Study of the Energy Sector and its Discontents', 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S2043-052320150000007008', ' Abstract  Purpose The focus of the chapter is on disputes around corporate social responsibility (CSR) in the fossil fuel industry and how media and social networking technologies are deployed in a virtual war between oil corporations and dissident, activist and protest groups.   Methodology/approach Communications by BP, Shell, and their opponents in this virtual war are compared, especially in relation to the creative use of the internet, digital technologies, and social media. Through a case study approach, the chapter shows how communications often center on contested notions of CSR and claims by the oil giants about their environmental impact, which opponents dismiss as \xe2\x80\x9cgreenwashing.\xe2\x80\x9d The various techniques deployed by both sides in this wide-ranging \xe2\x80\x9cPR war\xe2\x80\x9d are explored and contrasted in detail.   Findings The findings for each case study reveal the diverse, complex, and changing nature of the relationship between the oil industry and its critics. The chapter concludes by arguing that if CSR is seen as \xe2\x80\x9cgreenwashing\xe2\x80\x9d by the public, it is only likely to fuel widespread skepticism of the oil and gas sector and of corporate claims about the environment more generally.   Research limitations/implications The research offers a snapshot of online and social media campaigns and PR strategies and tactics within the oil and gas industry rather than empirically grounded set of findings that can be easily applied to other fields.   Practical implications Practical implications include attention to inflated or understated claims and the use of citizen testimony and humor to puncture CSR \xe2\x80\x9crhetoric.\xe2\x80\x9d There is consideration of use of digital technologies by activists and attention to the way public debates and consultations are conducted. The need for a more respectful engagement with local communities by all parties engaging in public relations is underlined.   Originality/value The chapter applies the concept of \xe2\x80\x9casymmetrical warfare\xe2\x80\x9d from conflict studies within the media and communications tradition to provide a fresh revaluation of the term \xe2\x80\x9cPR war,\xe2\x80\x9d It offers a rare focus on online efforts by activist to subvert CSR-related branding, marketing, and communications. Discussion of the use of parody alongside factual and emotional arguments to challenge corporate hegemony also provides revealing insights.  ']
['Midttun, Atle', 'Montesquieu for the twenty\xe2\x80\x90first century: factoring civil society and business into global governance', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/14720701011021148 \n', 'The author is grateful to Hilde Nordb\xc3\xb8 for assistance with interviews and preparing much of the EITI material, and to Jonas Moberg and Anders Tunold Kr\xc3\xa5kenes; the EITI secretariat, Sefton Darby; former DFID and World Bank and Alan Dethridge, former VP External Affairs, Exploration and Production, Shell, for comments on the final version.Received 20 June 2009Revised 15 September 2009Accepted 10 October 2009']
['Mishra, Pavitra; Gupta, Rajen & Bhatnagar, Jyotsna', 'Grounded theory research: Exploring work-family enrichment in an emerging economy', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/QRJ-01-2013-0001 \n', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to explore the phenomenon of work-to-family enrichment in totality. Using grounded theory, the study aims to understand antecedents, moderators, and consequences of work-to-family enrichment. This study also investigates strategies adopted by individuals to enhance their work-family enrichment experience. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The paper opted for an exploratory study using the open-ended approach of grounded theory. This paper builds a model to understand the phenomenon by applying Strauss and Corbin's (1990) \xe2\x80\x9cparadigm model\xe2\x80\x9d approach of grounded theory. The paper throws light on the key tenets of grounded theory research and explains use of grounded theory as a rigorous method for business research. Data were collected by taking 24 in-depth interviews with employees representing middle management segment of consulting, IT and FMCG firms in India. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 This study reports \xe2\x80\x9cperceived work-family culture\xe2\x80\x9d of an organization as an antecedent of \xe2\x80\x9cwork-to-family enrichment.\xe2\x80\x9d It also finds \xe2\x80\x9ccommunity resources\xe2\x80\x9d and \xe2\x80\x9cfamily role salience\xe2\x80\x9d as significant contributors in enriching the experience of professionals. Work-to-family enrichment experience has positive influence on \xe2\x80\x9cemployer brand attraction\xe2\x80\x9d and \xe2\x80\x9corganizational citizenship behavior\xe2\x80\x9d and has negative influence on \xe2\x80\x9cintention to quit.\xe2\x80\x9d The study has also added to the literature by identifying Psychological Capital as one of the consequences. The study has highlighted segmentation, i.e. by maintaining work and family boundaries, support from extended family members or close friends, engaging in activities that provides happiness and personal peace like being a part of NGO, time management and scheduling, engaging in shopping and availing community facilities like good day cares as major strategies used by Indian professionals to enhance their work-to-family enrichment. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 The study demonstrates application of grounded theory for understanding a phenomenon holistically. It is one of its kinds of study conducted to understand work-to-family enrichment. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 This is a unique study, where attempts have been made to understand and integrate work-to-family enrichment phenomenon in totality. The paper provides insights to the managers about the importance of suitable work-family culture and other factors to ensure successful implementation of work-family policies. The paper also identifies strategies adopted by individuals to attain work-family enrichment. Social implications \xe2\x80\x93 Demographic shifts, changing market and economic trends, technological advances and competitive forces have made work-family interface an important issue for both academicians and practitioners. In India, these changes can be experienced in terms of demographic profile of work force. Changes in the definitions of work and family, shifting family structure, changing profile of work (due to technological advancement, women empowerment, etc.) are transforming the work-family interactions in emerging economies. According to Hewitt's Attrition and Retention Asia Pacific Study, the need for a balance between work and personal life has become an integral element of employee's expectations from their work organization. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This paper fulfils an identified need to study and explore positive side of work-family interface especially in emerging economies like India. This is the first attempt to study the relationships in the work-family domain from a grounded theory approach in Indian context and probably one of the first few in the literature."]
['Parker, Cathy; Ntounis, Nikos; Quin, Simon & Grime, Ian', 'High Street research agenda: identifying High Street research priorities', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/JPMD-06-2014-0008 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this short article is to outline a research agenda to further our understanding of how retail areas are influenced by, and adapt to, change. This is part of an Economic and Social Research Council-funded project High Street UK 2020. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 We outline a research agenda \xe2\x80\x93 containing factors which High Street stakeholders in Alsager, Altrincham, Ballymena, Barnsley, Bristol, Congleton, Holmfirth, Market Rasen, Morley and Wrexham have identified as influencing the vitality and viability of their retail areas. Currently, there is little or no academic evidence available to support these factors; therefore, they are worthy of further research. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The towns assert that the following factors influence High Street performance (either positively or negatively) and need further research: business support; engagement and engaged businesses; fragmentation; information; Internet connectivity; local knowledge; measuring economic impact/value; media coverage; networking; public sector dependency and risk aversion. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 Only 10 towns have taken part in the research. Nevertheless, they are representative of the research-user community for retail centre research. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 This research agenda will enable researchers to respond to a clear gap in our knowledge about High Street performance, as identified by towns themselves. Social implications \xe2\x80\x93 By undertaking the research that people that manage retail areas need, it will enable practitioners to make better informed decisions and manage these important areas more effectively to the benefit of their local communities. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 By allowing town centre managers, traders, council members/officials and \xe2\x80\x9cconcerned citizens\xe2\x80\x9d to set the agenda for research production in the area of retail centre change, we anticipate forthcoming research in this area will be more highly valued by practitioners and have more impact in \xe2\x80\x9cthe real world\xe2\x80\x9d.']
['Ritvala, Tiina; Andersson, Per & Salmi, Asta', 'MNE and multiple embeddedness: A case study of MNE\xe2\x80\x93NGO collaboration in saving the Baltic Sea', 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S1745-8862%282013%290000008018', ' Abstract  Purpose This chapter analyses the multiple embeddedness of MNEs, and their participation in solving contemporary societal issues. We aim to increase understanding on the relational processes and network dynamics present in MNEs\xe2\x80\x99 participation in cross-sector partnerships.   Design/methodology/approach Our study addresses the issue of the poor ecological state of the Baltic Sea and illustrates the early developments in cross-sector collaboration. We build on a single exploratory case study of the cooperation of one MNE (IBM) with an environmental NGO (BSAG) in Finland. We analyse how participation in the cross-sector collaboration manifests itself in the external and internal networks of the MNE.   Findings We show that an initiative by the NGO to participate in environmental work was actively adopted within the MNE and led to network changes. These changes concerned both the activation of existing links and the establishment of new links with such actors as authorities and research institutes. The NGO acted as a catalyser and cultural mediator to create a bridge between the MNE and governmental actors.   Research implications There is a need to investigate cross-sector collaboration in other contexts \xe2\x80\x93 particularly from the perspective of MNEs and (international) business networks. Questions such as how do enduring (business and socio-political) relationships emerge from MNE\xe2\x80\x99s participation in issue networks and how technology that has been developed to solve a specific societal issue may be translated into commercial solutions are especially promising. We also urge scholars to investigate the ties, texture and dynamics (including tensions) of business relationships with those of public actors and civil society.   Practical implications Participation in cross-sector initiatives may grant an MNE a forerunner position in the creation of new sustainable markets and technologies. It may also create an opportunity to influence policymakers and build new socio-political networks. From the perspective of a subsidiary of an MNE, engagement with cross-sector partnerships may strengthen its voice within the MNE network.   Originality/value Our study contributes to the understanding of the relationship dynamics between actors in cross-sector collaboration around a societal (environmental) issue. Our analysis illustrates the embeddedness of MNE networks, where actions in the regional and global networks (the representatives of the headquarters) overlap with and strengthen the local actions of the subsidiary.  ']
['Rolandsson, Bertil', 'Partnerships with the police \xe2\x80\x93 logics and strategies of justification', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/QROM-08-2013-1172 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 Political reforms call for new types of public-private or community partnerships, in which public services are shaped in collaboration with networks of public, business or non-governmental organizations. The purpose of this paper is to investigate how municipal partners justify and thereby maintain partnerships with the police. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The empirical material comprises documents and 26 semi-structured interviews with civil servants, politicians, and police staff. This qualitative study investigates three Swedish municipalities engaged in partnerships with the same police authority. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Based on Boltanski and Th\xc3\xa9venot\xe2\x80\x99s order of worth, the paper describes how municipal partners manage two partly contradictory arrangements; one constituted by industrial and civic logics, and one constituted by domestic and industrial logics. Guided by these two different arrangements, they justify and thereby maintain their partnership with the police by alternating between a compromising strategy promoting adaptation to the police and a compensating strategy stating that they are independent partners with demands on the police. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 This is a qualitative study that needs further confirmation before general conclusions can be drawn. Still, it suggests that partners justify themselves by making claims on being both collaborative and independent within these partnerships. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Unlike research investigating how authorities initiate partnerships to organize integrated and cost-efficient public services, the paper highlights how partners justify their participation by alternating between two rather different but linked justifying strategies. The study applies a justificatory logic perspective that helps us understand that complex and sometimes contradictory arrangements of logics, which could threaten partner participation, also enable them to justify and thereby maintain their partnership with the police. Unlike institutional studies describing how tensions challenge organizational legitimacy this study describes how justificatory strains remain even when partners are able to justify their participation.']
['Sajjad, Farhana; Lee, Habin; Kamal, Muhammad & Irani, Zahir', 'Workflow technology as an e\xe2\x80\x90participation tool to support policy\xe2\x80\x90making processes', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/17410391111106301 \n', "The research leading to these results received funding from the European Community's 7th Framework Programme (FP7, 2007\xe2\x80\x902013), ICT, under grant agreement No. INFSO\xe2\x80\x90ICT\xe2\x80\x90248010 (UbiPOL project)."]
['Samorinha, Catarina; Lichon, Mateusz; Silva, Susana & Dent, Mike', 'User involvement in assisted reproductive technologies: England and Portugal', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/JHOM-12-2014-0202 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to compare user involvement in the case of assisted reproductive technologies in England and Portugal through the concepts of voice, choice and co-production, assessing the implications for user empowerment. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 This qualitative study draws primarily on policy review and uses exploratory semi-structured interviews with key informants as a way of illustrating points. Data on the following themes was compared: voice (users\xe2\x80\x99 representativeness on licensing bodies and channels of communication between users and doctors); choice (funding and accessibility criteria; choice of fertility centres, doctors and level of care); and co-production (criteria through which users actively engage with health professionals in planning the treatment). Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Inter- and intra-healthcare systems variations between the two countries on choice and co-production were identified. Differences between funding and accessibility, regions, public and private sectors and attitudes towards doctor-patient relationship (paternalistic/partnership) were the key issues. Although consumer choice and indicators of co-production are evident in treatment pathways in both countries, user empowerment is not. This is limited by inequalities in accessibility criteria, dependence on doctors\xe2\x80\x99 individual perspectives and lack of genuine and formal hearing of citizens\xe2\x80\x99 voice. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Enhancing users\xe2\x80\x99 involvement claims for individual and organizational cultures reflecting user-centred values. Effective ways to incorporate users\xe2\x80\x99 knowledge in shared decision making and co-design are needed to empower patients and to improve the delivery of care.']
['Silvius, Ray', 'Understanding Eurasian Integration and Contestation in the Post-Soviet Conjuncture: Lessons from Geopolitical Economy and Critical Historicism', 'Emerald', 'http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/S0161-72302015000030A016', ' Abstract The purpose of this paper is to examine processes of Eurasian integration and the veritable \xe2\x80\x98culture war\xe2\x80\x99 between Russia and the West over it, while contributing to the theoretical paradigm of geopolitical economy. This paradigm invites us to consider the multiple manifestations of an emerging multipolar world order while scrutinising the extent to which previously popular approaches to the study of international political economy were themselves enmeshed in projects, the architects of which aspired to global hegemony. The paper employs critical historicism, an approach in which cultural difference is seen as the sedimentation of historically constituted material and ideational processes and which eschews cultural essentialism and orientalising tropes. It is through this lens that Russian state attempts at normalising Eurasian integration processes are examined. I demonstrate that Russian state organs and officials, as well as \xe2\x80\x98political technologists\xe2\x80\x99 attempt to de-politicise processes of Eurasian integration by appealing to both the logic of cultural/civilisational compatibility of affected parties, as well as the logic of economic integration. Such portrayals invite scrutiny; however, it is important that we also consider how Eurasian integration initiatives are the product of a post-Soviet struggle over Eurasian space but represent something more than mere neo-Soviet revisionism. The paper demonstrates its originality by situating ongoing processes of Eurasian integration within the longer post-Soviet conjuncture and amid processes of international contestation. Moreover, it situates Russian officials and political technologists as active contributors to international debates about the emerging multipolar world order. ']
['Sim, Yeong Liang & Putuhena, Frederik Josep', 'Green building technology initiatives to achieve construction quality and environmental sustainability in the construction industry in Malaysia', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/MEQ-08-2013-0093 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to identify mechanisms and approaches involved in the local construction industry to enhance environmental concerns and the adoption of capacity development model to manage the environment and up keeping of the quality in Malaysian construction industry. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 This paper describes an innovative approach to understanding the role of internal and external influence through LEGO\xc2\xae concept. This approach builds on the theory of change management, in which includes learning about the domain of enabling environment, organisation, individual and knowledge management process. New ideas, practices or technologies occur through integration of efforts particularly from the above mentioned domains. The approach also analyses the challenges faced by construction stakeholders. It draws on findings from different studies including some other countries of sustainability in which the engagement of previous research has been incorporated to further enhance the construction and environmental quality in the Malaysian construction industry. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Environmental sustainable development construction requires a holistic thinking and decision making and more innovative solutions that enhance sustainability and result in mutually benefited outcomes for all stakeholders. A dedicated effort especially government and government link company is in strong demand. A valid reason for capacity development to develop in organisations and individuals to perform functions needed to keep green management operating and evolving to meet new challenges. The construction sector will benefit from learning advances in capacity development which are designed to improve and enhance construction and environmental quality governance. The coverage of LEGO\xc2\xae conceptual framework at which capacity development operates was identified in each domain of change management. Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 A limitation of the study was the relatively little literature information provided and thus affects the expounding and reliability of data. For this reason, these findings cannot be generalised to the other countries based on this study alone. The access to information is limited as public and private organisations hesitate to share information on their strategic planning and tactics. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Development of capacity development model will contribute to the understanding of environmental sustainability through identifying gaps in the understanding and pursuit of construction and environmental quality in the Malaysian construction industry. This paper suggests the future prospect that integrates several dimensions towards green management practice in Malaysia.']
['Soares, Nelson; Pereira, Lu\xc3\xadsa Dias; Ferreira, Jo\xc3\xa3o; Concei\xc3\xa7\xc3\xa3o, Pedro & da Silva, Patr\xc3\xadcia Pereira', 'Energy efficiency of higher education buildings: a case study', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/IJSHE-11-2013-0147 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 This paper aims to propose an energy efficiency plan (with technical and behavioural improvement measures) for a Portuguese higher education building \xe2\x80\x93 the Teaching Building of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Coimbra (FEUC). Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The study was developed in the context of both the \xe2\x80\x9cGreen Campus \xe2\x80\x93 Challenge for Energy Efficiency in Higher Education\xe2\x80\x9d and the Energy for Sustainability Initiative of the University of Coimbra, Portugal. An energy audit was conducted based on the analysis of the energy consumption profiles. A monitoring campaign was carried out to measure and disaggregate the electricity consumption. The consumption of natural gas and water were also assessed. The building envelope and the heating and lighting systems were also evaluated. Some patterns of energy-environmental behaviours of the academic community were investigated through a Web-based survey. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The energy efficiency plan contemplates short-term tangible/intangible actions. It also considers the investment and payback period of the tangible measures. The implementation of three improvement measures in the lighting system would lead to a consumption reduction of about 26,123 kWh/year, avoiding the emission of 3,704 KgCO2/year, for an initial cost of 9,920 (payback period of 3.7 years). Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 Results are restricted to the case study and there are limitations in their generalisation outside of their context. However, they show some broadly implications and trends that have relevance for the higher education sector. This paper highlights the importance of engaging students, faculty and technical staff for working together on the assessment of the energy efficiency of the buildings where they study and work. Social implications \xe2\x80\x93 The higher education sector holds important functions in educating the next generation of professionals for a sustainable culture. The categories of activities described in this paper are good examples of what can be done within the academic community for acting towards sustainability. The results also pointed out that making users aware of their energy consumption is a priority towards the energy efficiency in higher education buildings. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 Reductions on energy consumption are expected if the energy efficiency plan would be implemented. The results of the behavioural study were presented to the FEUC\xe2\x80\x99s board of directors to be integrated in the \xe2\x80\x9cGood Practices Manual on Water and Energy Management\xe2\x80\x9d.']
['Solomon, Lauren & Nelson, Tim', 'Energy for Life \xe2\x80\x93 an evidence\xe2\x80\x90based approach to corporate citizenship', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/SAMPJ-Oct-2012-0034 \n', 'The authors are grateful to Cameron Reid, Manager Hardship and Social Policy, for sharing his expertise with them in revitalising Energy for Life. All errors and omissions remain entirely the responsibility of the authors.']
['St\xc3\xb8re-Valen, Marit; Larssen, Anne Kathrine & Bj\xc3\xb8rberg, Svein', 'Buildings\xe2\x80\x99 impact on effective hospital services: The means of the property management role in Norwegian hospitals', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/JHOM-08-2012-0150 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to assess the status of the physical assets of Norwegian hospital facilities in terms of technical condition, building performance, usability and adaptability, thereby comprehending the main challenges for property management as part of facilities management (FM) within hospitals of the Norwegian Specialist Health-Care Services and permitting a discussion on a more strategic property management role. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The research is based on an action research approach using data collection from surveys, schemes and questionnaires, literature studies, documentation analysis and workshops with an active research team involvement with stakeholders. In-depth interviews were undertaken with owner representatives, property management representatives and health-care deliverers, and a GAP analysis allowed a study of the quality of property management (as part of the FM). Findings \xe2\x80\x93 A severe technical backlog was documented together with a strong demand for structural upgrading, which was roughly estimated to be approximately 30-35 billion NOK in 2012 (3.75-4.4 billion euros). Improvements are necessary in all areas of FM delivery within limited economic frameworks, even though several examples of good property management (as part of FM delivery) were found. A gap exists between the general strategy concerning hospital assets and the property management role, particularly with regard to the translation of change in user needs into changed facilities. A need for an increasing professionalization of the role is pressing, turning attention from operational costs and control to potential added value. This requires a shift of focus from the property manager in order to implement visions and goals for the health-care sector, which involves several actions such as an improved communication between stakeholders and technically improved skills, thus ensuring the recruitment and capability of property management staff and improved measurement processes. Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 This paper give two major recommendations: first, a stronger integration of the property management role as part of the FM delivery with the executive management of the Health Authorities and Regional and Local Health Trusts; and second, a nationally coordinated strategy for the development of property management in the Specialist Health-Care Services (called Strategic FM). The authors believe that developing a pool of competencies at the national level is necessary to develop the tools, methods and standardized measurements to enable a change in the use of the terms of added value and sustainability. Ultimately, this will enhance the assets of the health sector, and this paper suggests a model that allows for this development. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 This paper shows a model for property management as a strategic role in a holistic process involving all stakeholders from both the bottom up and the top down. The authors believe this process will engage the stakeholders in agreeing upon a clear vision and set of goals for the health-care service assets.']
['Thompson, Terrie Lynn', 'Work\xe2\x80\x90learning in informal online communities: evolving spaces', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/09593841111137359 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 This paper seeks to explore how workers engage in informal online communities for work\xe2\x80\x90learning. Although online communities may facilitate learning and knowledge creation, much of the literature is situated in formal online courses, suggesting a need to better understand the nuances of more informal learning spaces online.Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Semi\xe2\x80\x90structured interviews were conducted with 11 own\xe2\x80\x90account self\xe2\x80\x90employed workers (contractors and consultants who do not have staff).Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Participants engaged in ways that fit with expectations, leveraged fluidity, played with boundaries, and meshed with work. These workers attempted to (re)configure online spaces to create the degree of connection and learning needed, although not always successfully. This study explores how participants participated in much less pedagogically inscribed spaces and foregrounds several issues related to online engagement: managing exposure, force\xe2\x80\x90feeding community, and navigating multi\xe2\x80\x90purpose spaces.Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 There are indications that these workers are moving toward more networked architectures of online participation. How the notion of online community continues to evolve warrants further research.Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 Although turning to an online community is sometimes the only viable learning option, online presence brings challenges to be addressed by practitioners and policy makers, including attending to the nature of relationships in and between different cyberspaces, information and media literacies required, and the implications of such extensive connectivity between people and their web\xe2\x80\x90technologies.Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 By exploring how adults reach out to others in \xe2\x80\x9cinformal\xe2\x80\x9d online communities for learning purposes, this paper encourages researchers, practitioners, policy makers, and citizens to consider tensions and questions associated with cyberspace collectives.']
['Totterdill, Peter & Exton, Rosemary', 'Work and organisations in 2020: The future we want?', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/SD-09-2014-0110 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The report aims to make the case for workplace innovation in an increasingly volatile global environment and outlines the opportunities for the creative and rewarding work that it affords. Work and Organisations in 2020 argues that workplace innovation has a major impact on both the performance of the enterprise and on national economic competitiveness. It boosts productivity, quality and innovation, by making better use of workforce talent and has a profound effect on employees\xe2\x80\x99 learning and development, health, well-being, ageing and wider roles as citizens. Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 Keys issues include: the intrinsic value of work; sustainable workplaces; harmonising technological innovation and human potential; entrepreneurship and developing and utilising skills. Findings \xe2\x80\x93 The paper considers challenges to sustainable and effective change, and key issues concerning the way forward including responsible globalisation, new roles for public policy, new roles for trade unions and employers\xe2\x80\x99 organisations, a new labour market perspective, listening to the voice of employees and realising the promise of employee ownership. Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 The report concludes that there is a way towards a more coherent UK approach to renewing the employment agenda in the UK: an agenda that has often been somewhat fragmented and lacking in a strategic focus capable of guiding the efforts of different actors. At the heart of these values is a commitment to sustainable improvement in economic performance and social well-being, and an explicit rejection of short-termism.']
['Walters, Geoff & Chadwick, Simon', 'Corporate citizenship in football: delivering strategic benefits through stakeholder engagement', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/00251740910929696 \n', 'Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 The purpose of this paper is to explain that corporate citizenship refers to the specific activities that an organisation engages in to meet social obligations, and which has become an issue of growing importance within the business community. A key area in academic literature concentrates on justifying corporate citizenship initiatives to the corporate sector by illustrating a range of strategic benefits that a firm can achieve. This study is located within this body of work and aims to illustrate the strategic benefits that a football club can gain from the implementation of corporate citizenship activities through the community trust model of governance.Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 The study draws from qualitative primary and secondary data gathered from Charlton Athletic and Brentford football clubs.Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Analysis of the data resulted in the identification of six strategic benefits that a football club can realise through the creation of a community trust model of governance. These are the removal of commercial and community tensions; reputation management; brand building; local authority partnerships; commercial partnerships; and player identification.Research limitations/implications \xe2\x80\x93 The paper considers the importance of these findings for a generic business audience, discussing how organisations can also benefit from the creation of partnerships with football clubs focused on the delivery of corporate citizenship initiatives.Practical implications \xe2\x80\x93 The paper provides information regarding the application of management practice evident in football to other forms of business organisation.Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 The paper is the first to consider how corporate citizenship initiatives in football can assist firms in other sectors to achieve a range of strategic benefits.']
['Winston, Sally', 'Using technology to connect with people on employee engagement', 'Emerald', ' http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/14754391011078054 \n', "Purpose \xe2\x80\x93 In 2008, the UK Civil Service took the decision to bring together all departments' staff satisfaction surveys, creating an overarching employee engagement survey across the entire civil service. Infogroup/ORC International was charged with the unprecedented task of organizing and implementing this survey, ensuring that it met the complex requirements of Civil Service managers. This paper aims to focus on this initiative.Design/methodology/approach \xe2\x80\x93 It was critical to understand the challenges associated with communicating a survey and its results to such a large and diverse population. Through the use of user\xe2\x80\x90centered design, client\xe2\x80\x90panels and best practice, ORC International designed an online tool, called \xe2\x80\x9chighlights,\xe2\x80\x9d to meet the Civil Service's needs, ensuring that the survey and its findings achieved the outlined aims.Findings \xe2\x80\x93 Since its launch, highlights has received over 300,000 hits, demonstrating the importance placed on the Civil Service People Survey and the success of the tool in communicating the survey results in an effective, user\xe2\x80\x90friendly format. Analysis of the use of the tool has shaped the future development, in preparation for the 2010 survey.Originality/value \xe2\x80\x93 The paper discusses the challenges associated with communicating a survey and its results to such a large and diverse population."]
[u'Ulrike Felt, Simone Schumann, Claudia G Schwarz, Michael Strassnig', u'Technology of imagination: a card-based public engagement method for debating emerging technologies ', 'Sage', 'http://qrj.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/14/2/233', u'This article introduces and reflects on a group discussion method for public engagement exercises and for qualitative research                                 into citizens\u2019 practices of developing and negotiating positions on emerging technologies. The method consists of card sets                                 and a specific choreography in order to facilitate the development of citizens\u2019 imaginations on nanotechnology and society                                 in the Austrian context. Drawing on concepts from Science and Technology Studies, we discuss the method\u2019s design as well as                                 how citizens in four discussion groups appropriate the setting. The cards\u2019 materiality, their content and the discussion choreography                                 invites participants to move between individual and collective positioning work, to creatively engage with the elements available                                 and imagine how an emerging technology \u2013 in our case nanotechnology \u2013 could develop in future. For the analyst, it allows                                 reconstructing participants\u2019 ordering, assessment and projection practices. The article concludes with reflections on the                                 potential and limits of the method and how it could be employed as a tool for qualitative research more broadly.                              ']
[u'Jessica Lavariega Monforti, Jos\xe9 Marichal', u'The Role of Digital Skills in the Formation of Generalized Trust Among Latinos and African Americans in the United States\n                              ', 'Sage', 'http://ssc.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/32/1/3', u'A number of scholars have noted a digital skill divide among racial and ethnic groups in the United States (e.g. Hargittai,                                 2002). The ability to leverage information communication technologies (ICTs) in productive ways has been linked to greater                                 levels of prodemocratic attitudes and behaviors (Horrigan, Wellman, & Rainie, 2006; Valenzuela, Park, & Kee, 2009; Vitak et al., 2011). However, no work to date has explored how this relationship between digital skills and political behavior is mediated by                                 racial and ethnic identity. Using an ordered logistic regression to analyze a 2010 PEW data set of social media use, we test                                 the proposition that proficiency in digital skills enhances generalized trust among Latinos and African Americans. We find                                 that the acquisition of digital skills is associated with generalized trust for African Americans but not for Latinos or Anglo-Americans.                                 Our work suggests that ICTs in general and digital skills in particular might provide a distinct pathway to enhance generalized                                 trust for African Americans, a key precondition for civic engagement for historically marginalized groups in the U.S. society.                                 We discuss the implications of this research for enhancing generalized trust among historically marginalized groups in the                                 United States.                              ']
[u'Wen Lin', u"Situating Performative Neogeography: Tracing, Mapping, and Performing \u201cEveryone's East Lake\u201d ", 'Sage', 'http://epn.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/45/1/37', u"The emergence and proliferation of neogeographic practices since the mid-2000s have drawn significant attention from GIS scholars.                                 I seek to contribute to the discussion on situating neogeography, particularly through examining the performative dimension                                 of neogeography. To understand performative neogeographic practices I enroll de Certeau's notion of tactics to read these                                 practices as tactical spatial narratives, which may provide different possibilities for spaces of civic engagement and political                                 intervention in an increasingly networked and yet individualized society. I also draw upon theoretical insights from critical                                 GIS and critical social theory to situate and trace the constructions of performative neogeographic practices within particular                                 sociopolitical contexts. Through this synthesized framework, I discuss a case study involved in a participatory art performance                                 project entitled \u201cEveryone's East Lake\u201d in China. Drawing upon interviews and document analysis, the author examines how participants                                 utilize neogeographic mapping as a form of performance and tactical act in response to the dominant corporate and state power.                                 While performative mapping has long been used by artists and cartographers, this case study illustrates how these performative                                 neogeographic practices might highlight different intersections between self-identities, community participation, and sociopolitical                                 conditions, through reconfigurations of mobile and networked mapping technologies. These dynamic, hybrid, and networked mapping                                 practices necessitate a broader conceptualization of activism through mapping in critical GIS research.                              "]
[u'Christopher H. Sterling', u'Book Review: Techno Politics in Presidential Campaigning: New Voices, New Technologies, and New Voters, edited by John Allen\n                              Hendricks and Lynda Lee Kaid ', 'Sage', 'http://jmq.sagepub.com/cgi/content/full/89/3/553', 'NO ABSTRACT FOUND']
[u'Max Kaase', u'Democracy and Political Action ', 'Sage', 'http://ips.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/31/5/539', u"'Is democracy working?' was the theme of the International Political Science Association\u2019s s 20th Political Science World                                 Congress held in Fukuoka, Japan, in 2006, and it remains a fundamental theme for political science around the globe. In this                                 article,1 I will discuss the historical development of the study of democracy through public opinion and behavior research.                                 The article starts with a brief sketch of developments in Western democracies after World War II. With a general emphasis                                 on comparative micro-survey research, it then traces major trends in the empirical study of political participation, with                                 a particular emphasis on the Political Action Study (Barnes et al., 1979; Jennings et al., 1990). The significance of this                                 study resides in its opening the way for political science to consider non-institutionalized acts of political participation                                 not as a threat to pluralist democracies, but rather as an extension of the political repertory of democratic citizens. The                                 article then discusses potential reasons for the observed unexpected decline of political support in Western democracies after                                 the demise of totalitarian communism through the \u2018velvet revolution\u2019 in Central and Eastern Europe. In the conclusion, the                                 article speculates about future developments in democratic governance in the light of encompassing social, economic and technological                                 developments such as globalization and the Internet revolution.                              "]
[u'G\xf6ran Sundqvist', u'\u2018Heating up\u2019 or \u2018Cooling Down\u2019? Analysing and Performing Broadened Participation in Technoscientific Conflicts ', 'Sage', 'http://epn.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/46/9/2065', u'Stakeholders and citizens today are often invited to deliberate in controversial processes of scientific and technological                                 decision making. Scholars in the field of science and technology studies (STS) have long supported these initiatives to transcend                                 strong expert\u2013lay divides. However, despite many such contributions, there is no agreement on how such broadened participation                                 should be performed, either in theory or in practice. The theoretical ambition of this paper is to reformulate the opposing                                 viewpoints of Michel Callon and Harry Collins on public participation in scientific and technological decision making. It                                 is argued that they try to \u2018heat up\u2019 (Callon) or \u2018cool down\u2019 (Collins) the issues they study: that is, that they enact them                                 differently. The performative outcomes of these two strategies for participation are analysed. The empirical ambition is to                                 study recent developments in participatory approaches to radioactive waste management in Belgium and Sweden and the role of                                 social science in connection with these. Due to public criticism of earlier top-down technocratic approaches, this field has                                 played a significant role in enacting and supporting broadened participation. Moreover, while the waste programmes in Belgium                                 and Sweden have both been internationally recognised as taking participation seriously, they have varied considerably in terms                                 of participatory technologies and involvement of social science. A conclusion is that social science research has influenced                                 how participatory engagements are organised in radioactive waste programmes, and thereby has become involved in processes                                 of \u2018heating up\u2019 and \u2018cooling down\u2019. However, social scientists, as well as all actors, need to be more aware of their own                                 preconceptions about the issue at stake\u2014in terms of its being \u201chot\u201d or \u201ccold\u201d\u2014and the consequences of these enactments.                              ']
[u'Helga Nowotny', u'Engaging with the political imaginaries of science: Near misses and future targets ', 'Sage', 'http://pus.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/23/1/16', u'The current economic and financial crisis is also a political crisis that requires a rethinking of public engagement with                                 science. In the past, the dominant focus of science, technology and society (STS) has led to a blind spot: political understanding                                 and engagement of policy-makers and politicians with science, which is an integral part of any public engagement. Arguably,                                 it is bound to and emerges from what Ezrahi calls collective political imaginaries. These are necessary fictions, which are                                 causative and performative. In crude form, they manifest themselves in short-term impact measurements of every unit of scientific                                 activity with citizens as the fictitious ultimate beneficiaries. In the future, STS can gain from coming up with a workable                                 definition of the public interest with a focus on the public value of science. It can investigate collective imaginaries as                                 they emerge from interactions with new media. As necessary fictions they may hold answers we never imagined them to hold.                              ']
[u'Vilhj\xe1lmur \xc1rnason', u'Scientific citizenship in a democratic society ', 'Sage', 'http://pus.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/22/8/927', u'Using the example of the sociological analysis of biological citizenship and literacy, it is argued that a merely descriptive                                 analysis of these phenomena does not capture their distinctive normative features. While such a description realistically                                 demonstrates how citizens respond to and are shaped by biotechnology and biomedical discourse, it provides no critique of                                 the forces moulding the citizen-consumer. Ideas of active citizenship fuel the search for forms of public engagement in the                                 spirit of deliberative democracy. While these attempts are guided by an important vision of policy making in democratic society,                                 they are beset with several practical difficulties. It is argued that the discussion of deliberative practices has focused                                 too much on direct participation of citizens in various dialogical events and its impact on policy and decision making. This                                 approach ignores other important aspects of deliberative democratic theory, emphasizing public accountability and trustworthiness                                 of democratic institutions.                              ']
[u'Niels Mejlgaard, Sally Stares', u'Performed and preferred participation in science and technology across Europe: Exploring an alternative idea of \u201cdemocratic\n                              deficit\u201d ', 'Sage', 'http://pus.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/22/6/660', u'Republican ideals of active scientific citizenship and extensive use of deliberative, democratic decision making have come                                 to dominate the public participation agenda, and academic analyses have focused on the deficit of public involvement vis-\xe0-vis                                 these normative ideals. In this paper we use latent class models to explore what Eurobarometer survey data can tell us about                                 the ways in which people participate in tacit or in policy-active ways with developments in science and technology, but instead                                 of focusing on the distance between observed participation and the dominant, normative ideal of participation, we examine                                 the distance between what people do, and what they themselves think is appropriate in terms of involvement. The typology of                                 citizens emerging from the analyses entails an entirely different diagnosis of democratic deficit, one that stresses imbalance                                 between performed and preferred participation.                              ']
[u'Mohammad Sahid Ullah', u'ICTs changing youths\u2019 political attitudes and behaviors in Bangladesh ', 'Sage', 'http://gaz.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/75/3/271', u'This article explains political activism among educated youths in Bangladesh and how information and communication technologies                                 (ICTs) change their political attitudes and behaviors. The findings identify motivations and psychological factors that affect                                 patterns of new media use in political participation. Data from 23 interviewees, alongside those of 69 focus group participants,                                 reveal that Bangladeshi youths increasingly favor forward-looking agendas by rejecting traditional ideology-based party politics.                                 They have a passion for shaping their opinions through social networking instead of processions, party meetings, and political                                 violence. This study finds that youth engagement through virtual communication has no direct impact on political decision-making                                 but may play a pivotal role in some policy-making processes in Bangladesh.                              ']
[u'Simon N. Williams', u'A twenty-first century Citizens\u2019 POLIS: introducing a democratic experiment in electronic citizen participation in science\n                              and technology decision-making ', 'Sage', 'http://pus.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/19/5/528', u'Related to ongoing debates concerning the future of \u201cdeliberative democracy\u201d and \u201cpublic sociology,\u201d this article introduces                                 a new approach to citizen participation in science and technology decision-making. The Citizens\u2019 POLIS (Participatory On-Line                                 Interactive System) is a multi-method, multi-stage, semi-structured, electronic public participation process. This pragmatic                                 experiment is influenced by the philosophy of John Dewey and James Bohman, and sees the citizen as the primary democratic                                 inquirer and the social scientist as the key organizer and creator of the \u201cinstitutional space for deliberation.\u201d This article                                 discusses the role of the social scientist in organizing an electronic participation experiment, one which seeks to reach                                 a compromise between democratic legitimacy and political effectiveness. A recently completed pilot study on \u201cMobile Phones,                                 Risk and Health\u201d is used to illustrate the approach. In conclusion, the need for further empirical experimentation with this,                                 and other processes for electronic citizen participation, is asserted.                              ']
[u'Alfons Bora', u'Technoscientific Normativity and the \u2018\u2018Iron Cage\u2019\u2019 of Law ', 'Sage', 'http://sth.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/35/1/3', u'Participation of a broad variety of actors in decision-making processes has become an important issue in science and technology                                 policy. Many authors claim the involvement of stakeholders and of the general public to be a core condition for legitimate                                 and sustainable decision making. In the last decades, a wide spectrum of procedures has been developed to realize biotechnological                                 citizenship. These procedures, composed of multiactor arenas, are either located in close relation to the system of politics,                                 or, as in the case of administrative decision making, more closely to the system of law. In the latter case, a problematic                                 constellation arises. Here, law and science can build a technoscientific normativity that systematically excludes political                                 discourse. The law, although intending to provide for political freedom and citizenship rights, at the end appears to be an                                 \u2018\u2018iron cage\u2019\u2019 for political communication.                              ']
[u'Niels Mejlgaard', u'The trajectory of scientific citizenship in Denmark: Changing balances between public competence and public participation\n                              ', 'Sage', 'http://spp.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/36/6/483', u'The understanding of relations between science and the public is divided between two competing paradigms: one that focuses                                 on citizen competence and one-way dissemination of knowledge, and another that emphasizes public participation and dialogue.                                 This article proposes an integrative framework that regards competence and participation as important dimensions of \u2018scientific                                 citizenship\u2019, and focuses on the changing balance between these dimensions. Recounting developments in Denmark, it is argued                                 that the trajectory of scientific citizenship in Denmark runs counter to the broader European trend. In the 2000s, Danish                                 policies and social practices concerned with the interplay between science and the public have been highly focused on one-way                                 dissemination, and the traditional \u2018Danish model\u2019 of institutionalized, deliberative public participation in science and technology                                 decision-making, which developed in the course of the 1980s and received international renown, has lost much of its influence.                              ']
[u' Dong Chul Shim,  Tae Ho Eom', u'Anticorruption effects of information communication and technology (ICT) and social capital ', 'Sage', 'http://ras.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/75/1/99', u"This article examines the argument that Information Communication and Technology (ICT) and social capital serve as major factors                                 to reduce corruption. ICT has the potential to reduce unnecessary human intervention in government work processes, thus reducing                                 the need to monitor corrupt behavior. Furthermore, citizens living in a society with a high level of social capital are more                                 likely to become actively involved in the political decision-making process, increasing the likelihood that public employees'                                 corrupt behaviors will be exposed to the densely connected public. We also examined the relationship between social capital                                 and ICT. Our statistical analysis, which used panels of datasets obtained from various sources, revealed that (1) ICT is an                                 effective tool for reducing corruption; (2) social capital also has positive effects on anti-corruption, but various dimensions                                 of social capital may have different impacts; and (3) the relationship between social capital and ICT is inconclusive.                              "]
[u'Maria-Llu\xefsa Marsal-Llacuna, Ramon Fabregat-Gesa', u'Modeling citizens\u2019 urban time-use using adaptive hypermedia surveys to obtain an urban planning, citizen-centric, methodological\n                              reinvention ', 'Sage', 'http://tas.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/0961463X15577259v1', u'Traditional urban planning methodologies cannot solve today\u2019s planning challenges that cities pose. Citizens\u2019 needs have substantially                                 changed the last decade while urban planning methods have remained the same since the 70s. A more citizen-centric urban planning                                 is presented in this paper. To that end, and to effectively deal with citizens\u2019 larger data needed for the urban planning                                 methodological reinvention, interdisciplinary work is supported with information and communication technologies. We conducted                                 a survey of citizens on urban time-use (Marsal MLl and L\xf3pez MB (2014) Smart urban planning: Designing urban-land-use from                                 urban time-use. Journal of Urban Technology 21(1): 39\u201354). The results on urban-time-use distribution were converted into urban-land-uses as pioneering methodology for                                 the reinvention of urban planning methodologies. In order to get the highest voluntary participation from citizens to ensure                                 a good representation of all ages and social groups, the survey has to be designed with adaptive hypermedia techniques. The                                 adaptive hypermedia techniques we propose in this paper combine stereotype and feature-based models which we explore for the                                 purpose to include them in the survey. The combination of stereotype and feature-based models has different advantages, among                                 others: stereotype techniques avoid to initiate survey profiles from scratch and feature-based techniques allow a personalized                                 questionnaire to be employed. Moreover, personalization, in combination with user profiles, allows prediction which is of                                 great interest for this research due to its planning purposes.                              ']
[u'Jeffry M. Diefendorf', u"Urban Transportation Planning Influences and Legacies: Kurt Leibbrand, Germany's Acclaimed Postwar Traffic Planner ", 'Sage', 'http://jth.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/35/1/35', u'This article explores several dimensions of the work and career of Kurt Leibbrand, often considered the most influential German                                 urban transportation planner after 1945. It examines some key ideas prevalent in his publications, such as his advocacy of                                 the priority of transportation planning, hostility to citizen participation in planning, and rejection of pedestrian zones.                                 In assessing his status, the paper discusses his contributions to traffic plans for the cities of Basel, Mainz and Selb. The                                 paper also examines some shifts in his career, including his move to the Swiss Federal Institutes of Technology in 1950 and                                 his resignation there after his arrest for having ordered the murder of Italian volunteers in his army unit during the war.                                 Leibbrand was convicted of manslaughter but not punished because the statute of limitations had expired. He continued to work                                 as a consultant but did not again hold an academic position in the German-speaking world.                              ']
[u'Ileana Apostol, Panayotis Antoniadis, Tridib Banerjee', u'\nFl\xe2nerie between Net and Place: Promises and Possibilities for Participation in Planning  ', 'Sage', 'http://jpe.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/33/1/20', u'The information and communication technology (or ICT) revolution adds new possibilities for providing information about places                                 and communities that may be used in planning processes. In this article we introduce the practice of fl\xe2nerie in the physical and virtual space as a method to produce representative images of contemporary social life. We suggest how                                 planning may be instrumental in shaping a public good alternative in this emerging hybrid social space, where the practice                                 of fl\xe2nerie can stimulate engagement in deliberative planning practices. Finally, we discuss some of the trade-offs and design                                 choices for eliciting information from citizens about their localities to understand how future development may lead to qualitative                                 changes in community life.                              ']
[u'Keiron Bailey, Benjamin Blandford, Ted Grossardt, John Ripy', u'Planning, Technology, and Legitimacy: Structured Public Involvement in Integrated Transportation and Land-Use Planning in\n                              the United States ', 'Sage', 'http://epb.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/38/3/447', u'The authors have measured an Arnstein gap, that is, a significant difference between desired and actual levels of citizen                                 participation in planning processes. This Arnstein gap exists because even well-intentioned professionals have an unrealistic                                 expectation of achieving consensus across large planning scales. Further, it is often hoped or believed that technologies                                 of representation will somehow accomplish consensus. The authors argue this is not possible without developing a stronger                                 theoretical framework for their deployment in planning in democratic societies. The purpose of this research is to move the                                 public closer to the center of the public infrastructure planning and design process in a productive, efficient, and more                                 satisfactory manner, that is, to close the Arnstein gap. The authors adapt a participatory framework, called structured public                                 involvement (SPI), for integrating visualization and geospatial technologies into large-scale public involvement in planning                                 domains. The authors discuss how SPI using the casewise visual evaluation method is applied in collaboration with planners.                                 A case study is presented of integrated transportation and land-use planning for an Indiana city. The results demonstrate                                 that SPI achieves high levels of stakeholder satisfaction in addition to providing high-quality planning and design guidance                                 for professionals.                              ']
[u'Lynn Mandarano, Mahbubur Meenar, Christopher Steins', u'Building Social Capital in the Digital Age of Civic Engagement ', 'Sage', 'http://jpl.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/25/2/123', u'The use of digital technologies to enhance traditional public participation processes and to build a new form of a social                                 capital\u2014 digital social capital\u2014is being embraced in a range of planning practices. This article presents a discussion of                                 how the digital age is influencing public participation and its implications for building social capital. The article highlights                                 critical concerns to consider when embracing Internet tools for civic engagement and when evaluating such practices. The authors                                 conclude with a call for scholarly research to assess the constraints and opportunities presented by this emergent trend and                                 comparative studies to traditional modes of public participation.                              ']
[u'Charles A. Santo, Nathan Ferguson, Andrew Trippel', u'Engaging Urban Youth through Technology: The Youth Neighborhood Mapping Initiative ', 'Sage', 'http://jpe.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/30/1/52', u'Processes designed to capture youth perspectives and engage young people in community development decisions can improve planning                                 outcomes, support the development of sustainable and family-friendly urban areas, and foster civic-minded future leaders.                                 This article reflects on the Youth Neighborhood Mapping Initiative, a university-community partnership that sought to foster                                 civic engagement among urban teens and help them voice their perspectives while providing training and exposure to careers                                 in city planning and geographic information systems. Participants identified assets and liabilities in their neighborhoods                                 and learned to use technology to tell their stories through maps, photography, and blogs.                              ']
[u'Mathieu O\u2019Neil', u'Labour out of Control: The Political Economy of Capitalist and Ethical Organizations ', 'Sage', 'http://oss.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/36/12/1627', u'Digitally networked voluntary associations such as free software projects and Wikipedia can be distinguished from capitalist                                 firms in two respects. First, their predominant logic is \u2018ethical\u2019. Participation is primarily motivated by self-fulfilment                                 and validated by a community of peers, rather than by earning wages. Second, their governance is \u2018modular\u2019, understood in                                 a design sense (decomposable blocks sharing a common interface), but also in political economy terms: participants oppose                                 restricted ownership and control by individually socializing their works into commons. In recent years capitalist-centralized                                 firms have increasingly engaged with ethical-modular organizations, in some cases paying wages to participants (such labour                                 is thus both \u2018alienated\u2019 or sold, and \u2018communal\u2019, as workers freely cooperate to produce commons). This article reviews the                                 literature dealing with the relationship of these two organizational types. It argues that the manner in which scholars approach                                 a central characteristic of ethical-modular organizations \u2013 participants relinquish exclusive property rights over the resource                                 they have created \u2013 leads to highly diverse interpretations. Four hypotheses are presented. A \u2018panoptic\u2019 view overlooks the                                 abjuration of exclusive property rights, so that ethical-modular organizations can be defined as a variant of the evolution                                 of capitalist firms into post-bureaucratic networks. \u2018Skeptics\u2019 view this abjuration as irrelevant, and ethical-modular organizations                                 as increasing worker exploitation. In contrast, \u2018activists\u2019 celebrate the abjuration of exclusive property rights, and present                                 ethical-modular organizations as key actors in a historical process leading to the disappearance of capitalism and hierarchy.                                 Finally \u2018reformists\u2019 suggest that the co-optation of communal labour by firms will benefit business practices and society.                                 The article examines the analytical focus of each hypothesis in terms of labour, loss of control by firms over workers, and                                 societal impact. Where appropriate, it raises questions and objections. The conclusion addresses communal labour\u2019s effective                                 dependence on capitalist-centralized firms and suggests factors which may contribute to its emancipation.                              ']
[u'Benjamin Stokes, Dmitri Williams', u'Gamers Who Protest: Small-Group Play and Social Resources for Civic Action  ', 'Sage', 'http://gac.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/1555412015615770v1', u'Commercial games are rarely studied for their links to civic behavior. Yet small-group games online can affect the social                                 networks that spill into civic life (and vice versa). This study examined players of the world\u2019s most popular personal computer                                 game, League of Legends. Such games are theorized as mirrors that reflect civic tendencies and help some players to retain social resources. Using                                 models of civic voluntarism, the attitudes and behaviors of more than 9,000 gamers were investigated. Gamers were shown to                                 have relatively typical civic lives, except for unusually high rates of peaceful protest. Which gamers protest? As predicted,                                 models for protest improved when considering how players approach their gaming (including recruiting and collaboration preferences).                                 Dispelling some civic fears, there was no evidence that video games distracted from civic life when played in moderation.                                 The findings support an emerging notion of protest as a playful and \u201cexpressive\u201d civic mode.                              ']
[u'Emily B. Zimmerman', u'Book Review: Kids on YouTube: Technical Identities and Digital Literacies ', 'Sage', 'http://tso.sagepub.com/cgi/content/pdf_extract/43/3/250', 'NO ABSTRACT FOUND']
[u'Beste \u0130\u015fleyen', u'Governing the Israeli\u2013Palestinian peace process: The European Union Partnership for Peace ', 'Sage', 'http://sdi.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/46/3/256', u'This study applies a governmentality approach to analyse the European Union\u2019s civil society promotion in the context of the                                 Israeli\u2013Palestinian peace process through the EU\u2019s Partnership for Peace instrument. Contrary to a widespread conviction in                                 earlier academic research, it argues that the EU engagement with the Israeli\u2013Palestinian conflict has political substance,                                 and the Partnership for Peace provides a good illustration of this. The governmentality perspective highlights the power of                                 the technical in guiding civil society towards particular visions, activities and goals. It brings to light a set of supposedly                                 neutral definitions and technical instruments related to project applications and project selection that sort out, promote                                 and link together civil society action in a way that manages and reinforces the existing dynamics of the peace process. The                                 technical brings with it a particular idea of civil society, which is encouraged to assume functions that focus on the management                                 of the outcomes of the conflict rather than striving for a transformative vision of peace based on political deliberation                                 and fundamental change. The use of the governmentality approach not only aims to provide a better understanding of the nature                                 of the Partnership for Peace programme, but also contributes to debates over the theoretical merits of governmentality by                                 applying the approach to peace and conflict research.                              ']
[u'Ashley A. Anderson, Jason Delborne, Daniel Lee Kleinman', u'Information beyond the forum: Motivations, strategies, and impacts of citizen participants seeking information during a consensus\n                              conference ', 'Sage', 'http://pus.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/22/8/955', u'During traditional consensus conferences, organizers control the formal information available to participants\u2014by compiling                                 structured background materials and recruiting expert panelists. Less formally, however, participants are encouraged to bring                                 their own experiences into the deliberations, and in doing so, they often seek outside information. We explore this heretofore                                 understudied phenomenon of information seeking during a deliberative event: the U.S. National Citizens\u2019 Technology Forum (2008),                                 which addressed the convergence of nanotechnology, biotechnology, information technology, and cognitive science on the potential                                 development of human-enhancement technologies. Through interviews with participants and observation of in-person and online                                 deliberations, we identify outside information-seeking strategies and motivations. Our study demonstrates that conceptualizing                                 models of deliberation as standalone settings of communication exchange ignores the reality of the complex information environment                                 from which deliberative participants draw when making sense of technical issues. Future citizen deliberations must incorporate                                 outside information seeking in the design of the exercises.                              ']
[u'Mark Mccarthy, Agnese Knabe', u'Civil society and public health research in the European Union new member states ', 'Sage', 'http://sjp.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/40/3/253', u'Introduction: Civil society organisations (CSOs) are not-for-profit organisations working for the public interest with concerns complementary                                 to public health. We investigated the contribution of CSOs in public health research. Methods: Within a European project STEPS (Strengthening Engagement with Public Health Research), CSOs with interests in health were                                 identified in the new member states of the European Union (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Czech Republic,                                 Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, Malta, and Cyprus) and workshops organised, held in their own languages. The reports of the workshops                                 were translated into English and drawn together through a framework analysis. Results: CSOs can contribute in all stages of the research cycle, through championship, priority-setting, capacity building and generation                                 of resources, sharing and application of the research results, and dissemination across their network of contacts. There have                                 been successful CSO\u2013researcher collaborations in public health fields. Funding is important, and ministries of health and                                 public institutions should interact more with CSOs. Barriers include attitudes, technical understanding across public health                                 fields. Conclusion: There is little European empirical literature linking health CSOs and research: our results indicate benefits and further                                    opportunities. In contrast to biomedicine\u2019s link with industry, public health research can align with civil society in not-for-profit                                    research. CSOs are important for European integration, and their contribution should be better recognised at international                                    level.']
[u'Christina Neumayer, Jakob Svensson', u'Activism and radical politics in the digital age: Towards a typology  ', 'Sage', 'http://con.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/22/2/131', u'This article aims to develop a typology for evaluating different types of activism in the digital age, based on the ideal                                 of radical democracy. Departing from this ideal, activism is approached in terms of processes of identification by establishing                                 conflictual frontiers to outside others as either adversaries or enemies. On the basis of these discussions, we outline a typology of four kinds of activists, namely                                 the salon activist, the contentious activist, the law-abiding activist and the Gandhian activist. The typology\u2019s first axis,                                 between antagonism and agonism, is derived from normative discussions in radical democracy concerning developing frontiers.                                 The second axis, about readiness to engage in civil disobedience, is derived from a review of studies of different forms of                                 online activism. The article concludes by suggesting that the different forms of political engagement online have to be taken                                 into account when studying how online activism can contribute to social change.                              ']
[u'Danielle Nielsen', u'Facilitating Service Learning in the Online Technical Communication Classroom ', 'Sage', 'http://jtw.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/46/2/236', u'Drawing from the author\u2019s experience teaching online technical communication courses with an embedded service-learning component,                                 this essay opens the discussion to the potential problems involved in designing online service-learning courses and provides                                 practical approaches to integrating service learning into online coursework. The essay addresses specifically those classrooms                                 where students may be required to develop or find their own service opportunities, whether those opportunities are within                                 their community, on the college or university campus, or in another community. The essay argues by implementing service learning                                 into online classrooms and requiring students to locate their own agencies, students not only build a greater sense of civic                                 engagement because they are working with agencies whose missions they support, but also they develop a greater sense of responsibility                                 for their own education and the coursework they undertake.                              ']
[u'Beng\xfc Hosch-Dayican, Chintan Amrit, Kees Aarts, Adrie Dassen', u'How Do Online Citizens Persuade Fellow Voters? Using Twitter During the 2012 Dutch Parliamentary Election Campaign ', 'Sage', 'http://ssc.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/34/2/135', u'This article explores how Twitter was used by voters to participate in electoral campaigning during the Dutch election campaign                                 of 2012. New social media networks like Twitter are believed to be efficient tools of communication between electoral candidates                                 and voters during electoral campaign periods. Yet only few studies have been conducted so far to discover in what way the                                 content of online discussions is being used for campaigning. In particular, there have been very few studies of electoral                                 campaigning, which study the content of the social media messages sent by citizens. In order to understand the extent to which                                 citizens utilize Twitter in different forms of electoral campaigning\u2014that is, persuading followers about voting for a particular                                 party or to conduct negative campaigning, we conducted an automated content analysis of a large corpus of tweets collected                                 during the Dutch parliamentary election campaign of 2012. Our findings show that citizens participate significantly in online                                 electoral campaigning on Twitter, whereas they differ from professional users in the style of campaigning. Persuasive campaigning                                 is observed to a lesser extent among citizens than among politicians, while citizens more commonly use negative campaigning.                                 Moreover, qualitative content analysis of campaigning tweets by citizens has revealed that expressions of emotions and opinions                                 make up a large majority of negative tweets, indicating that citizens regard Twitter more as an outlet for expressing discontent                                 than as a medium for negative campaigning.                              ']
[u'Cynthia Peacock, Peter Leavitt', u'Engaging Young People: Deliberative Preferences in Discussions About News and Politics ', 'Sage', 'http://sms.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/2/1/2056305116637096', u'The Internet affords users a unique and low-cost way to engage with news, politics, and one another. Although young people                                 are the most likely age cohort to go online, it is questionable whether young people take advantage of the Internet as a deliberative                                 space. We examine the way college students perceive the online world as a venue for political discussion by analyzing responses                                 from six focus groups conducted with college students across the United States. Using deliberative theory as a guide, we examine                                 focus group participants\u2019 thoughts about political discussion both online and offline. Our findings indicate that young people\u2019s                                 preferences for online discussions about politics and the news consistently link to the ideals of deliberation. Young people                                 prefer engaging with others who are knowledgeable and remain flexible and calm during discussions. Goals for engaging in conversations                                 about politics primarily revolved around sharing information and opinions. Participants preferred civil discourse that focuses                                 on commonalities rather than differences between people. This study provides greater insight into how the rising generation                                 currently engages with politics and the news and reasons why many people hesitate to participate in online discussions about                                 public affairs.                              ']
[u'Regina Marchi', u'News Translators: Latino Immigrant Youth, Social Media, and Citizenship Training  ', 'Sage', 'http://jmq.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/1077699016637119v1', u'This article discusses how low-income Latino immigrant youth use the Internet for newsgathering. Contrary to previous assumptions                                 about the digital divide, the youth almost universally owned cell phones and got most of their news online, although poverty                                 affected the quality of their connectivity. However, a generational digital divide was evident, in which Internet-savvy youth                                 had access to timelier and more diverse news than their parents. In a reversal of typical parent\u2013child roles, the youth were                                 \u201cnews translators\u201d for their parents, explaining U.S. news stories and their implications. Moreover, in seeking, critiquing,                                 creating, and posting content online, the youth gained participatory and deliberative skills useful for civic engagement in                                 a democracy.                              ']
[u'Matthew Cousineau', u'Community, Competition, and Citizen Science: Voluntary Distributed Computing in a Globalized World ', 'Sage', 'http://csx.sagepub.com/cgi/content/pdf_extract/45/2/196', 'NO ABSTRACT FOUND']
[u'Mads P S\xf8rensen', u'Political conversations on Facebook \u2013 the participation of politicians and citizens ', 'Sage', 'http://mcs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/0163443715620924v1', u'Political conversations are according to theories on deliberative democracy essential to well-functioning democracies. Traditionally,                                 these conversations have taken place in face-to-face settings, for example, in party meetings and town meetings. However,                                 social media such as Facebook and Twitter offer new possibilities for online political conversations between citizens and                                 politicians. This article examines the presence on Facebook and Twitter of Members of the Danish National Parliament, the                                 Folketing, and focusses on a quantitative mapping of the political conversation activities taking place in the threads following                                 Facebook posts from Danish Members of Parliament (MPs). The article shows that, in comparison with previous findings from                                 other countries, Danish MPs have a relatively high degree of engagement in political conversations with citizens on Facebook                                 \u2013 and that a large number of citizens follow MPs, read posts from the MPs and discuss politics with them and other citizens                                 via the posts made by the MPs.                              ']
[u'Kristoffer Holt, Michael Karlsson', u'\u201cRandom acts of journalism?\u201d: How citizen journalists tell the news in Sweden ', 'Sage', 'http://nms.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/17/11/1795', u'In this study, the results from a content analysis of four Swedish online citizen journalism outlets are presented and discussed.                                 The analysis focuses on new digital venues for news-making in theory and the question of the political relevance of citizen                                 journalism in reality. This broad question is operationalized by asking more specifically how citizen journalists tell the news, according to established distinctions between variations in topic dimensions, focus, and presentational style. Our results show that citizen journalists tend to tell soft news. They rarely report on policy issues, local authorities,                                 or people affected by decisions being made by them. Furthermore, the news focuses on individual relevance and is mostly episodic                                 in nature. The style of writing is predominantly impersonal and unemotional. In sum, our results suggest that citizen journalism                                 in Sweden is not yet at a stage where it can be considered a plausible alternative to traditional journalism.                              ']
[u'Todd Graham, Daniel Jackson, Scott Wright', u'From everyday conversation to political action: Talking austerity in online \u2018third spaces\u2019 ', 'Sage', 'http://ejc.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/30/6/648', u'Taking forward a new agenda for online political deliberation \u2013 the study of everyday political talk in non-political, online                                 \u2018third spaces\u2019 \u2013 this article examines the dynamics of political talk across three general interest UK-based online forums.                                 The quantitative analysis found that discussions about austerity were just as likely to emerge from non-political discussions                                 as they were ones that began as \u2018political\u2019, demonstrating the links people made between everyday experiences and public policy.                                 Our qualitative analysis represents the first real attempt to analyse political actions within third spaces, with some striking                                 outcomes. Over half of all political discussions led to at least one political action (with significant variation between                                 forums). The findings demonstrate that while such third spaces remain concerned with the preoccupations of everyday life,                                 they can and do perform a role of mobilizing agent towards political participation.                              ']
[u'K. Hazel Kwon, Daegon Cho', u'Swearing Effects on Citizen-to-Citizen Commenting Online: A Large-Scale Exploration of Political Versus Nonpolitical Online News Sites  ', 'Sage', 'http://ssc.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/0894439315602664v1', u'Swearing, the use of taboo languages tagged with a high level of emotional arousal, has become commonplace in contemporary                                 political culture. The current study attempts to understand the ways in which swearing influences citizen-to-citizen news                                 commenting online. Based on a large corpus of the 2-month user comments from 26 news websites in South Korea, the study examines                                 swearing effects as well as its interplay with anonymity on garnering public attention and shaping other users\u2019 perceptions                                 of the comments. Findings suggest that swearing generally has a positive effect on increasing user attention to comments as                                 well as gaining other users\u2019 approvals. Comparisons between political and nonpolitical topics further suggest that swearing                                 effect on gaining public attention is particularly prominent for political discussions. In contrast, the magnitude of change                                 toward positive valence in public perception to comments is much greater for nonpolitical topics than for politics. From the                                 findings, we conclude that an acceptable degree of swearing norms in online discussions vary across news topical arenas. The                                 results also lead to discussions about the possibility of like-minded exposure to political comments as a default condition                                 for online discussions. Finally, the study highlights the role of high-arousal emotions in shaping discursive participation                                 in contemporary networked sociodigital environment.                              ']
[u'Karoline Andrea Ihleb\xe6k, Arne H Krumsvik', u'Editorial power and public participation in online newspapers ', 'Sage', 'http://jou.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/16/4/470', u'The Internet has radically increased the opportunity for the public to take part in debate and deliberation, challenging the                                 hegemonic position of the established media as the facilitators of such debate. As new forums for participation have entered                                 the market, traditional players in television, radio and the press have also transformed their services, strategically aiming                                 to facilitate new forms of participatory services where citizens can engage in discussions. In this article we explore how                                 the participatory trend raises important questions concerning how editorial standards and editorial control are maintained                                 in online newspapers. Based on a mapping of the available services, surveys of newspaper executives, and in-depth interviews                                 with online editors, we investigate attitudes and practices with regard to editorial control and its attempt to balance the                                 new ideals of participation in the online world with maintaining the editorial standards of print media.                              ']
[u'Lisa M Jones, Kimberly J Mitchell', u'Defining and measuring youth digital citizenship ', 'Sage', 'http://nms.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/1461444815577797v1', u'There is an increasing interest in improving youth digital citizenship through education. However, the term \u2018digital citizenship\u2019                                 currently covers a broad range of goals. To improve education, the current article argues for a narrower focus on (1) respectful                                 behavior online and (2) online civic engagement. Using this definition, a digital citizenship scale was developed and assessed                                 with a sample of 979 youth, aged 11\u201317\u2009years, and confirmatory factor analyses (CFAs) supported measurement of both constructs:                                 online respect (7 items, Cronbach\u2019s \u03b1\u2009=\u2009.92) and online civic engagement (4 items, Cronbach\u2019s \u03b1\u2009=\u2009.70). Online respect scores decreased with youth age, and scores on both subscales were higher among                                 girls than boys. Both online respect and civic engagement were negatively related to online harassment perpetration and positively                                 related to helpful bystander behaviors, after controlling for other variables. Implications of the study findings for developing                                 and evaluating digital citizenship educational programs are discussed.                              ']
[u'Brian F. Geiger', u'Establishing a disability-inclusive agenda for sustainable development in 2015 and beyond ', 'Sage', 'http://ped.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/22/1/64', u'Disability was omitted from the Millennium Declaration and eight Millennium Development Goals. As a result, individuals with                                 disabilities and their advocates, health-related agencies and major United Nations (UN) groups collaborated to explicate the                                 rights and needs of persons with disabilities. A community empowerment approach was guided by the Convention on the Rights                                 of Persons with Disabilities, input from expert groups, public meetings held across the globe, questionnaires sent to civil                                 society representatives, and rich online conversation. Persons with disabilities have the right to health, education, gainful                                 employment, social protection, and participation in political and public life. Selected results from The World We Want consultation                                 for the topic of \u2018Inequalities and a disability-inclusive agenda\u2019 illustrate the potential of reaching consensus among a broad                                 array of constituents, informing decisions about policy and practice.                              ']
[u'Sonja Utz', u'The reputation society: How online opinions are reshaping the offline world ', 'Sage', 'http://nms.sagepub.com/cgi/content/pdf_extract/16/7/1187', 'NO ABSTRACT FOUND']
[u'Maxwell Foxman, Michelle Forelle', u'Electing to Play: MTV\u2019s Fantasy Election and Changes in Political Engagement Through Gameplay  ', 'Sage', 'http://gac.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/9/6/454', u'In 2012, MTV explored a new approach to voter engagement through \u201cFantasy Election.\u201d The game had players draft candidates                                 in the congressional and presidential elections onto personal teams in order to compete for points and prizes, which were                                 distributed based not only on the candidates\u2019 actions but also when players themselves took action to become better informed                                 and involved during the campaign. In the end, Fantasy Election drew over 10,000 active participants. This article scrutinizes                                 the design and effect of the game by using data from MTV\u2019s exit survey of Fantasy Election users to explore whether and how                                 games can be used to encourage voter engagement. By considering the self-reported motivations of players, and a broader discussion                                 of the role of play, competition and reward in fostering political and civic participation, we consider how gamification strategies                                 have ambivalent effects on developing a more informed and cooperative civil society.                              ']
[u'Leticia B. Vasconcelos, Nat\xe1lia Vasconcelos, Marcelo Espindola, Erika F. Gomes, Levi Diogenes', u'Hearing Screening in the Elderly: Preliminary Results ', 'Sage', 'http://oto.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/151/1_suppl/P207-b', u'Objectives: Presbycusis is hearing impairment resulting from aging. Hearing-impaired elderly are more likely to experience emotional                                    distress, social engagement restrictions, and depression. Hearing loss also affects posture and balance and predisposes patients                                    to falls. In comparison to universal screening of newborns, efforts for early diagnosis and prevention of hearing loss in                                    the elderly are still insufficient. A prevalence study of disabling hearing loss in a developing country detected 30% of affected                                    elderly. The aim of the study was to perform a screening of disabling hearing loss (DHL) in the elderly in a city of a population                                    of 500,000 and to detect hearing loss in the elderly without diagnosis and offer them audiologic rehabilitation.                                 ']
[u'Yannis Theocharis, Ellen Quintelier', u'Stimulating citizenship or expanding entertainment? The effect of Facebook on adolescent participation ', 'Sage', 'http://nms.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/1461444814549006v1', u'Over the past decade, Internet and politics scholarship has been concerned with the effects of the Internet on forms of civic                                 and political participation. Recent research has moved on to examine the effects of social networking sites like Facebook.                                 Although past studies have generally found positive \u2013 albeit weak or moderate \u2013 relationships between social networking sites                                 use and civic and political participation, reliance on cross-sectional surveys has not produced conclusive evidence of the                                 direction of causality. We use a two-wave panel survey of 15- and 16-year-olds to examine how Facebook use affects various                                 forms of political and non-political entertainment-oriented participation (both online and offline). We find that Facebook                                 use is positively related to civic and entertainment-oriented, but not to online or offline political, participation. Further                                 analysis using structural equation modelling shows that prior levels of civic participation have a stronger effect on Facebook                                 use than Facebook use has on civic participation. Facebook use only leads clearly to entertainment-oriented participation.                                 The implications of these findings are discussed.                              ']
[u'Nanang Indra Kurniawan, St\xe5le Angen Rye', u'Online environmental activism and Internet use in the Indonesian environmental movement ', 'Sage', 'http://idv.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/30/3/200', u'This article investigates the use of the Internet among Indonesian environmental non-governmental organizations (ENGOs) and                                 how this use influences the mobilizing structure of the environmental movement. The discussion is informed by an explorative                                 study of nineteen Indonesian ENGOs working in the domain of forest protection. The study reveals that the Internet empowers                                 the environmental activism of these organizations by enhancing opportunities for political participation. A main finding in                                 the article is that well-established organizations with well-developed international networks benefit the most from the use                                 of the Internet in their activism. However, smaller organizations with more informal charters seemed to have a better capacity                                 to connect unconnected communities to the global flow of information.                              ']
[u'Steven J. Balla', u'Health system reform and political participation on the Chinese Internet ', 'Sage', 'http://cin.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/28/2/214', u'Authoritarian regimes, such as the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), seek to bolster legitimacy by facilitating communications                                 between citizens and government officials. This article investigates the operation of online consultation, a process through                                 which citizens offer feedback on draft laws and regulations. The article specifically examines the importance of demographic                                 characteristics and subjective motivations in the expression of citizen sentiments in response to a proposed revision to China\u2019s                                 health system. By bringing together analysis of the content of citizen sentiment with a survey of participants, the article                                 illuminates the determinants of the tone and substance of citizen feedback in health system reform. The primary finding is                                 that participants who were internally efficacious and democratically oriented were, relative to respondents not possessing                                 such traits, positive in tone and highly substantive in the submission of their comments concerning health system reform.                                 This finding indicates that the health system reform commenting process offered citizens the opportunity to gain exposure                                 to democratic principles and the process of articulating interests. More broadly, the analysis suggests the promise of online                                 consultation in promoting citizen satisfaction with public policies, the legitimacy of the CCP, and, ultimately, stability                                 in the Chinese political system.                              ']
[u'Rory Truex', u'Consultative Authoritarianism and Its Limits ', 'Sage', 'http://cps.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/0010414014534196v1', u'Consultative authoritarianism challenges existing conceptions of nondemocratic governance. Citizen participation channels                                 are designed to improve policymaking and increase feelings of regime responsiveness, but how successful are these limited                                 reforms in stemming pressure for broader change? The article develops a new theoretical lens to explain how common citizens                                 perceive the introduction of partially liberalizing reforms and tests the implications using an original survey experiment                                 of Chinese netizens. Respondents randomly exposed to the National People\u2019s Congress\u2019 (NPC) new online participation portals                                 show greater satisfaction with the regime and feelings of government responsiveness, but these effects are limited to less                                 educated, politically excluded citizens.                              ']
[u'Robert H. Wicks, Jan LeBlanc Wicks, Shauna A. Morimoto, Angie Maxwell, Stephanie Ricker Schulte', u'Correlates of Political and Civic Engagement Among Youth During the 2012 Presidential Campaign ', 'Sage', 'http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/58/5/622', u'A national mail survey of adolescents between the ages of 12 and 17 (n = 876) was conducted immediately before the U.S. presidential election (October 2012) to investigate socialization agents                                 that may correlate with political and civic engagement. The relative importance of potential correlates of engagement including                                 demographics, parents, peers, schools, religion, traditional media, social networks, and digital communication were evaluated.                                 Regression analysis revealed that civically engaged youth identify with a religion, participate in civic education activities                                 at school and extracurricular activities, take action (e.g., boycotting or buycotting), develop attitudes about citizenship,                                 and engage in online/social media political activities. Politically engaged youth come from higher income households, discuss                                 news and politics, take action, and are very prone to engage in online/social media political activities. While a wider range                                 of activities appear to be related to civic engagement, those who are politically engaged appear to have a strong interest                                 in online media usage. Implications are discussed.                              ']
[u'Judith Moeller, Claes de Vreese, Frank Esser, Ruth Kunz', u'Pathway to Political Participation: The Influence of Online and Offline News Media on Internal Efficacy and Turnout of First-Time Voters  ', 'Sage', 'http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/58/5/689', u'News media play a key role in informing young citizens about politics and cultivating a sense of political efficacy. Online                                 news media, in particular, are expected to have a positive impact due to their interactivity and new opportunities to share                                 and discuss information. This study analyzes the impact of online and offline news media use on the growth in internal efficacy                                 among adolescents, based on data we collected in a three-wave panel survey in the Netherlands (N = 729). Additionally, we test the impact of internal efficacy on turnout using a fourth wave of the same sample (N = 612). The results show that while newspaper reading has the strongest effects among traditional news sources, actively                                 participating in the communication process of political information online has the strongest impact on internal efficacy.                                 Internal efficacy in turn is found to be a significant predictor of first-time voters. The article concludes with a discussion                                 of media use as a pathway to political participation through internal political efficacy.                              ']
[u'Younghoon Chang, Siew Fan Wong, Myeong-Cheol Park', u'A three-tier ICT access model for intention to participate online: a comparison of developed and developing countries  ', 'Sage', 'http://idv.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/0266666914529294v1', u'The digital divide between countries is a critical phenomenon separating the countries that \u2018have\u2019 (mostly developed countries)                                 from the countries that \u2018have not\u2019 (mostly developing countries). It places developing countries in a disadvantaged position                                 economically, politically, and socially that in turns affects the life and social well-being of the citizens. Current understanding                                 of the digital divide is limited by usage of secondary data, which prompts scholars to call for more theoretically-based empirical                                 research. Since the key to reducing the digital divide is to increase people\u2019s access to ICT, this study developed and empirically                                 tested a 3-tier ICT access model to determine the effect on ICT development of intention to participate in online activities                                 among citizens in developed and developing countries. The model was founded on three existing research frameworks. In addition,                                 this study theoretically clarified the relationship between four types of ICT access and how they contribute to intention                                 to participate online. Survey data of university students from Korea and Cambodia was collected. The results confirm the effect                                 of ICT development on citizens\u2019 intention and isolate key factors that impact the two countries differently. Technological                                 access was found to impact extrinsic motivational access and skills access. Social access influenced extrinsic and intrinsic                                 motivational access and skills access. Implications for research and practice are discussed.                              ']
[u'Noriko Hara', u'(Re)Inventing the Internet: Critical Case Studies ', 'Sage', 'http://nms.sagepub.com/cgi/content/pdf_extract/16/1/173', 'NO ABSTRACT FOUND']
[u'Craig D. Parks, Jeff Joireman, Paul A. M. Van Lange', u'Cooperation, Trust, and Antagonism: How Public Goods Are Promoted  ', 'Sage', 'http://psi.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/14/3/119', u'One of the most continually vexing problems in society is the variability with which citizens support endeavors that are designed                                 to help a great number of people. In this article, we examine the twin roles of cooperative and antagonistic behavior in this                                 variability. We find that each plays an important role, though their contributions are, understandably, at odds. It is this                                 opposition that produces seeming unpredictability in citizen response to collective need. In fact, we suggest that careful                                 consideration of the research allows one to often predict when efforts to provide a collectively beneficial good will succeed                                 and when they will fail.                              ']
[u'Nam-Jin Lee, Dhavan V. Shah, Jack M. McLeod', u'Processes of Political Socialization: A Communication Mediation Approach to Youth Civic Engagement  ', 'Sage', 'http://crx.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/40/5/669', u'By analyzing data from a national panel survey of adolescents (ages 12-17) and their parents conducted around the 2008 general                                 election, this study explores the varied roles communication plays in socializing youth into democratic citizenship. In particular,                                 we propose and test a communication mediation model of youth socialization, in which interdependent communication processes                                 located in the family, schools, media, and peer networks combine to cultivate communication competence, a set of basic communication                                 skills and motives needed for active and informed participation in public life. Analysis of our panel data indicates that                                 participation in deliberative classroom activities and democratic peer norms contribute to civic activism among youth. These                                 peer and school influences, however, are found to be largely indirect, working through informational use of conventional and                                 online news media, and expression and discussion of political ideas outside of classroom and family boundaries. In particular,                                 our findings highlight strong online pathways to participation, centering on news consumption and political expression via                                 digital media technologies, suggesting the key role of the Internet in this dynamic.                              ']
[u'Terhi Tuukkanen, Marja Kankaanranta, Terhi-Anna Wilska', u'Children\u2019s life world as a perspective on their citizenship: The case of the Finnish Children\u2019s Parliament ', 'Sage', 'http://chd.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/20/1/131', u'The latest childhood studies present children\u2019s citizenship as a process of engaging in matters related to children themselves                                 in their everyday lives. However, only a few studies have been conducted on what those issues are and what they actually tell                                 about children\u2019s citizenship. This study explores the nature of children\u2019s participation and citizenship by adopting a life                                 world perspective. The aim is to examine what kind of issues children want to participate in and influence. The data are drawn                                 from an online discussion in the Finnish Children\u2019s Parliament. Altogether 61 children participated in the discussion, with                                 566 postings. The analysis of the children\u2019s online discussion shows that children comment mainly on issues that directly                                 impact their lives, such as school. However, they also want to engage in issues that are global in nature, such as children\u2019s                                 general well-being.                              ']
[u'Johan \xd6stman', u'Information, expression, participation: How involvement in user- generated content relates to democratic engagement among\n                              young people ', 'Sage', 'http://nms.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/14/6/1004', u'A number of studies have linked citizens\u2019 involvement in user-generated content (UGC) on the internet to democratic engagement.                                 Whereas previous research implies a view of UGC involvement as the processing of political information, this study conceptualizes                                 and operationalizes UGC involvement in terms of a distinct audience experience based on expressivity, performance and collaboration.                                 Analysis of survey data from Swedish adolescents in the 13\u201317 age range shows that UGC involvement predicts offline as well                                 as online political participation. In contrast to informational media use, however, UGC involvement is negatively related                                 to political knowledge. The findings are compatible with recent theories suggesting that the expressive, performative and                                 collaborative features of UGC involvement can promote political participation. Implications of the findings for youth democratic                                 engagement are discussed.                              ']
[u'Joseph Kahne, Ellen Middaugh, Nam-Jin Lee, Jessica T. Feezell', u'Youth online activity and exposure to diverse perspectives ', 'Sage', 'http://nms.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/14/3/492', u'Some see the internet as a means of exposure to divergent perspectives, while others believe that it is likely to foster echo                                 chambers. We agree that it is important to attend to these possibilities, but we find that this discussion is often framed                                 inappropriately. Drawing on a unique panel survey of the online practices and civic and political engagement of youth (aged                                 16\u201321), we find that most youth do not report exposure to echo chambers or divergent perspectives. Rather, most report either                                 being exposed to views that both align with and diverge from their own, or they report not interacting with others about their views on societal issues at                                 all. We also find that particular forms of online participatory activity, digital media literacy activities, and political                                 interest are related to increased reports of exposure to diverse perspectives.                              ']
[u'Fadi Hirzalla, Liesbet van Zoonen', u'Beyond the Online/Offline Divide: How Youth\u2019s Online and Offline Civic Activities Converge  ', 'Sage', 'http://ssc.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/29/4/481', u'In this article, the authors investigate whether and how young people combine online and offline civic activities in modes                                 of participation. The authors discuss four participation modes in which online and offline activities may converge: Politics,                                 Activism, Consumption, and Sharing. Applying confirmatory factor analysis to survey data about the civic participation among                                 Dutch youth (aged 15\u221225 years; N = 808), the authors find that online and offline activities are combined in the Politics, Activism, and Sharing modes, and                                 that these three modes correlate significantly with each other. Conversely, the Consumption mode can only be validated as                                 a separate offline participation mode. The results confirm the conclusion of previous studies that youth\u2019s participation patterns                                 are relatively dependent of mode, and add that their participation is concurrently relatively independent of place (offline vs. online).                              ']
[u'B. Joon Kim, Andrea L. Kavanaugh, Karen M. Hult', u'Civic Engagement and Internet Use in Local Governance: Hierarchical Linear Models for Understanding the Role of Local Community Groups  ', 'Sage', 'http://aas.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/43/7/807', u'Civically and politically interested individuals often use the Internet to facilitate and augment their civic and political                                 participation. At the local level, such people also use the Internet to communicate and share information with fellow members                                 of the local community groups to which they belong. In doing so, local groups help to create awareness and draw citizens into                                 public deliberation about local issues and concerns, not only offline (a role they have played for many years) but also online.                                 This research examines the interplay of individual-level and local group-level factors through an analysis of household survey                                 data from the town of Blacksburg, Virginia, and surrounding areas in 2005 and 2006. It seeks to reconcile different levels                                 of analysis\u2014individual and group levels\u2014relating to the use and impact of the Internet on civic engagement. This study identifies                                 the distinctive influences at both the individual level and the community group level by applying a multilevel statistical                                 model (specifically, the hierarchical linear model). First, at the individual level of analysis, this study found that internal                                 and external political efficacy and community collective efficacy were significant individual-level factors explaining the                                 Internet use for civic and political purposes. Second, at the group level of analysis, community group Internet use\u2014which                                 includes listservs, discussion forums, and blogs, among other emerging Internet technologies\u2014and group political discussion                                 were revealed as key influences on citizens\u2019 perspectives on the helpfulness of the Internet for civic and political purposes.                                 Finally, in multilevel analysis, when taking individual-level variables into account, the group-level variables (group Internet                                 use and group political discussion and interests) are positively associated with the views of the helpfulness of the Internet                                 in connecting with others in the community and becoming more involved in local issues.                              ']
[u'Itai Himelboim', u'Civil Society and Online Political Discourse: The Network Structure of Unrestricted Discussions  ', 'Sage', 'http://crx.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/38/5/634', u'The goal of this study is to examine\u2014theoretically and empirically\u2014the implications of unrestricted, computer-mediated social                                 interactions for civil society. Discussions of 207,419 participants in 35 newsgroups over 6 years are examined. Patterns of                                 participation and attention attraction follow a power\u2013law degree distribution\u2014a highly skewed distribution\u2014as is expected                                 in large networks. Furthermore, analysis shows that these patterns are dependent on group size: The larger a group, the more                                 skewed is its distribution. These patterns indicate hierarchical social structures that limit equality among participants                                 and well-informed citizenry. The growth of discussions, which can empower civil society, is in fact making it more hierarchical.                              ']
[u'Christine L. Vandenhouten, Crystalmichelle L. Malakar, Sylvia Kubsch, Derryl E. Block, Susan Gallagher-Lepak', u'Political Participation of Registered Nurses ', 'Sage', 'http://ppn.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/12/3/159', u'Level of political participation and factors contributing to participation were measured among Midwest RNs (n = 468) via an online survey (Cronbach\u2019s \u03b1 = .95). Respondents reported engaging in primarily \u201clow cost\u201d activities (e.g.,                                 voting, discussing politics, and contacting elected officials), with fewer reporting speaking at public gatherings, participating                                 in demonstrations, and membership in nursing organizations. Psychological engagement was most predictive (p < .001) of political participation with the dimensions of political interest, political efficacy, and political information/knowledge                                 highly significant (p < .001). Resources (time/money/civic skills) significantly contributed to political participation (p < .001). Less than half (40%) felt they could impact local decisions, and fewer (32%) felt they could impact state or national                                 government decisions. Most respondents (80%) indicated their nursing courses lacked political content and did not prepare                                 them for political participation. Findings showed that nurse educators and leaders of professional nursing organizations need                                 to model and cultivate greater psychological engagement among students and nurses.                              ']
[u'Homero Gil de Z\xfa\xf1iga, Sebasti\xe1n Valenzuela', u'The Mediating Path to a Stronger Citizenship: Online and Offline Networks, Weak Ties, and Civic Engagement ', 'Sage', 'http://crx.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/38/3/397', u'Empirical studies of citizen communication networks and participation go as far back as the 1940s, with a bolder focus in                                 political\u2014not civic\u2014activities. A consistent finding reveals that individuals with larger networks are more engaged than those                                 with smaller networks. This article expands this line of work with a number of novel tests. First, it compares the predictive                                 power of online versus offline network size on civic engagement. It then explores the role of strong-tie versus weak-tie discussion                                 frequency and participatory behaviors. Finally, it examines the extent to which the contribution of network size, both online                                 and offline, on civic engagement is mediated by discussion with weak ties. Using original survey data from a large national                                 sample of U.S. adults, results indicate that (1) the relationships between online and offline network size and civic engagement                                 are positive and fairly similar in strength, (2) weak-tie discussion is the strongest predictor of civic behaviors, (3) weak-tie                                 discussion largely mediates the association between participation and network size online and offline, and (4) online networks                                 entail greater exposure to weak ties than offline networks.                              ']
[u'Janelle Ward, Claes de Vreese', u'Political consumerism, young citizens and the Internet ', 'Sage', 'http://mcs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/33/3/399', u'Evidence suggests that purchasing products for ethical or political reasons\u2212also known as political consumerism\u2212may be gaining                                 in importance. With (young) people\u2019s declining voting rates and a general disinterest in political institutions, scholars                                 and political elites alike are speculating on the evolution of citizenship. Research shows that citizens in countries like                                 the UK see issue and life-style-based politics as increasingly relevant. These developments point to an interest in understanding                                 political consumerism and its relationship to citizenship. Through analysis of a survey conducted among 1215 respondents in                                 the UK, this article presents evidence in particular for youth\u2019s notable presence online and their affinity for a particular                                 strain of political consumerism identified as socially conscious consumption. It explores the relationship between this consumption                                 and online and offline political participation. It discusses the potential for political consumerism to play a larger role                                 in traditional political realms and particularly through the utilization of technology.                              ']
[u'Chih Yuan Woon', u'\u201cProtest is Just a Click Away!\u201d Responses to the 2003 Iraq War on a Bulletin Board System in China ', 'Sage', 'http://epd.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/29/1/131', u"The Internet as an important cultural medium in the (re)production of geopolitical affairs has increasingly elicited close                                 scrutiny by scholars working in popular geopolitics. However, recent exhortations have appealed for more expansive geographical                                 imaginations to extend such research outside Anglo-American contexts. This paper focuses on one influential Mandarin bulletin                                 board system (BBS) in China, the Qiangguo Luntan (QGLT), by critically analyzing the posted responses to a specific geopolitical event\u2014the 2003 US-initiated war in Iraq.                                 I argue that the lively discussions pertaining to post-9/11 global anxieties, (dis)order, and counterterror initiatives on                                 QGLT demonstrate how interconnected Chinese communities are able to weave alternative viewpoints and shape antiwar consensus                                 through the broad bandwidth of networked technology beyond the purview of territorially based governments. Furthermore, with                                 China having a tightly controlled media industry whereby people's voices are seldom heard (or seen), these online debates                                 also offer poignant reflections on the intermeshing issues of democracy, civic participation, and citizenship. Finally, it                                 is with hope that this paper provides a crucial intervention into considering how the surplus capacity of information networks                                 (such as the BBS) can be mobilized for nonviolent agendas to detract from the excessive terrors and endless violence that                                 continue to mire contemporary geopolitics.                              "]
[u'Lori A. Brainard, John G. McNutt', u'Virtual Government\u2013Citizen Relations: Informational, Transactional, or Collaborative?  ', 'Sage', 'http://aas.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/42/7/836', u'Public administration theory and practice suggest that e-government, citizen participation, and government\u2013citizen collaboration                                 are contributing to a movement toward New Public Service\u2014as opposed to Old Public Administration and New Public Management.                                 We explore this by focusing on the relationship between the Washington, D.C., police and local residents via online discussion                                 groups. We ask, How do police interact with citizens virtually? How are these interactions structured? and Are they informational,                                 transactional, or collaborative? Using descriptive data and thread analysis, and drawing distinctions between districts, we                                 conclude that the bulk of activity is informational, a fair amount of activity is transactional, and less activity is collaborative.                                 Thus, the relationship most closely approximates Old Public Administration, rather than New Public Management or New Public                                 Service. The evidence offers some cause for hope for the future of police\u2013community relations in virtual space and ideas for                                 future research.                              ']
[u'Wan-Ying Lin, Pauline Hope Cheong, Yong-Chan Kim, Joo-Young Jung', u'Becoming Citizens: Youths\u2019 Civic Uses of New Media in Five Digital Cities in East Asia ', 'Sage', 'http://jar.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/25/6/839', u'Asian youths are embracing communication technologies at a burgeoning rate, yet interesting differences in Internet access                                 and use exist among this younger generation. Our empirical investigation provides a rich and comparative look into what Asian                                 youths do online, with an emphasis on an understudied area: their civic uses of new media. Data collected among youths aged                                 between 12 and 17 in Hong Kong, Seoul, Singapore, Taipei, and Tokyo in 2007 show that this \u2018digital generation\u2019 has grown                                 up with computers and the Internet, with 96% of them being internet users, and having 6 years of computer experience on average.                                 Our results suggest that the Internet may facilitate citizenship among Asian youths although entertainment-related activities                                 such as downloading music or playing games remain the most popular activities online. Sixty-five percent of them read online                                 news, almost half of them have ever cast a vote on the Internet, and every one in five has signed an online petition. Differences                                 in Internet usage and civic behaviors among youths in five cities are presented, suggesting the contextual nature of Internet                                 use influenced by civic culture.The paper concludes with a discussion of differences in Internet use among Asian youths between                                 2001 and 2007, together with research implications for better understanding this population.                              ']
[u'Petra Alfred, Gary Boykin, Dr. Lynn Caldwell, Dr. Harris Lieberman, Mr. Panigiotis Matsangas, Dr. Nita Lewis Miller, Dr. Valerie Rice, Dr. Nancy Wesensten', u'Sleep across Military Environments ', 'Sage', 'http://pro.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/54/11/769', u"This focus of this discussion panel is on the effect of sleep on human performance in different military environments or contexts.                                 Panelists will discuss a wide range of topics including how to address fatigue among Air Force pilots, the impact of sleep                                 on performance in Army Advanced Individual Training, the effects of adjusting Army and Navy recruits' sleep schedules during                                 training, the existing gaps in addressing sleep needs on naval vessels, the impact of sleep loss and other stressors on dismounted                                 warfighter performance, and the effects of chronic inadequate sleep on cognitive readiness. It is important to understand                                 both the differences in the effects of sleep in these environments, as well as the commonalities that can be applied to multiple                                 environments and operators. Our panelists include some of the foremost sleep experts of today, as well as others who examine                                 sleep in their human performance research. Participation in this panel will include discussing their latest research, offering                                 practical applications, and engaging the audience in discussions of cross-disciplinary applications, including areas for collaboration                                 across military and civilian services and environments. Finally, panelists and audience members will and share ideas about                                 directions for future sleep-related research.                              "]
[u'Liza Tsaliki', u'Technologies of Political Mobilization and Civil Society in Greece: The Wildfires of Summer 2007  ', 'Sage', 'http://con.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/16/2/151', u'This is a commentary regarding the role new technologies may have to play in the mobilization of civil society in Greece;                                 it discusses two street protests against the wildfires that consumed large parts of the country during the summer of 2007,                                 which were initiated via online technologies. It concludes that, despite the recent mobilization of large parts of Greek society                                 in December 2008, also accelerated via the use of new media, the Greek citizenry has yet to prove that it can effectively                                 and consistently over time remain motivated about the environment. In that respect, the street protests under consideration                                 may be seen as nothing more than activist pyrotechnics, facilitated and sexed-up by new ICTs. Therefore, new technologies,                                 on their own, have a limited scope for political mobilization unless there is a supporting and contextual environment that                                 promotes and sustains their impact.                              ']
[u'Royce Koop, Harold J. Jansen', u'Political Blogs and Blogrolls in Canada: Forums for Democratic Deliberation?  ', 'Sage', 'http://ssc.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/27/2/155', u'Several theorists have entertained the possibility that the egalitarian nature of Internet-based discussion may facilitate                                 meaningful democratic deliberative discussions amongst citizens. This article provides a preliminary empirical test of these                                 claims by examining the extent to which blogs and blogroll communities act as forums for such deliberations. The analysis                                 uses a dataset derived from a content analysis performed on blogs from three Canadian partisan blogrolls in October 2005.                                 We perform three tests of the deliberative qualities of blog-based discussions: (a) whether discussion is characterized by                                 equality of participation; (b) whether bloggers discuss substantive issues; and (c) whether bloggers engage constructively                                 in discussions with political opponents. We find that this online discussion does exhibit some deliberative characteristics                                 but that this discussion is often characterized by inequality of discussion, a focus on non-substantive issues, and unconstructive                                 engagement between bloggers.                              ']
[u'Alexandros Tsadiras', u'Guarding the guardian: \u2018Article 258 TFEU complaints\u2019 before the European Ombudsman ', 'Sage', 'http://ras.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/81/3/621', u"The infringement procedure of Article 258 TFEU has been consistently viewed by the EU administration and judges as a bipolar                                 bargaining game between the European Commission and the defaulting member state, in which individuals have no role to play.                                 The European Ombudsman's efforts to triangularize the infraction process have resulted in the introduction of a number of                                 soft-law, non-justiciable commitments for the Commission, which are currently set out in the 2012 Communication on its relations                                 with complainants. This article considers the Ombudsman's contribution in the field of infringement complaints by empirically                                 examining the application of the principal provisions of the Commission's Communication in his decision-making. The resulting                                 finding is that Article 258 TFEU complainants have substantially benefited from the Ombudsman's creativity beyond the tight                                 constraints of legality.                              "]
[u'Anika Gauja', u'The Individualisation of Party Politics: The Impact of Changing Internal Decision-Making Processes on Policy Development and\n                              Citizen Engagement ', 'Sage', 'http://bpi.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/17/1/89', u'Research Highlights and Abstract']
[u'Anne M. Dijkstra, Mirjam Schuijff', u'Public opinions about human enhancement can enhance the expert-only debate: A review study ', 'Sage', 'http://pus.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/0963662514566748v1', u'Human enhancement, the non-medical use of biomedical technologies to improve the human body or performance beyond their \u2018natural\u2019                                 limitations, is a growing trend. At the same time, the use of these technologies has societal consequences. In societal debates                                 about human enhancement, however, it is mainly the voices of experts that are being heard, and little is known about the public\u2019s                                 understanding of human enhancement. The views of the public can give valuable insights, and can, in turn, supplement experts\u2019                                 voices in political decision-making as has been argued before for other emerging technologies. This study presents a systematic                                 literature review of current public perceptions and attitudes towards technologies for human enhancement. Results show that                                 the public\u2019s view has not been assessed often. Studies originate mainly from western-oriented countries and cover a broad                                 range of enhancement technologies. In the studies, the majority of respondents hold moderate to strong negative attitudes                                 towards enhancement technologies for non-medical applications, although the type of technology influences these opinions.                                 The study provides an overview of what is known about citizens\u2019 attitudes towards technologies for human enhancement.                              ']
[u'Bjarki Valtysson', u'Democracy in disguise: the use of social media in reviewing the Icelandic Constitution ', 'Sage', 'http://mcs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/36/1/52', u'The aim of this article is to scrutinise the participative processes enabled by social media services in the collaborative                                 rewriting of the Icelandic Constitution. The Constitutional Council creating and presenting the bill made use of Facebook,                                 YouTube, Flickr, Twitter, and its own stjornlagarad.is site to encourage and ensure engagement and participation by the general                                 public in the rewriting process. This article presents the participating citizens as a weak networked public, the Constitutional                                 Council as an intermediate public, and the members of Icelandic Parliament as a strong public. Despite open structures and                                 the facilitation of information, statements, and in some cases deliberation, the communicative efforts of the general public                                 remain in the form of weak publics belonging to the cultural public spheres since decision-making still takes place in the                                 \u2018upper\u2019 structures of political public spheres.                              ']
[u'Mirjana Drenovak Ivanovi\u0107', u'The application of information technology and environmental protection ', 'Sage', 'http://ras.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/78/4/692', u'The Aarhus Convention became a part of the Serbian legal system through the adoption of the Law on Ratification of the Convention                                 on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision Making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters in May 2009.                                 Although the legislation in Serbia, prior to the ratification of the Aarhus Convention, pointed, to some extent, to the realization                                 of ideas promoted by it, following the ratification, there was the formal possibility of the consistent application of rights                                 stipulated by the Convention. This article analyses the role of information technology (IT) in providing public access to                                 environmental information. There are three basic ways IT may be applied in environmental protection. First, through the use                                 of IT for environmental matters, the public can be informed about the general condition of the environment. In the legal system                                 of Serbia, the Agency for Environmental Protection is obliged to collect environmental information from local government and                                 compile annual reports on the environment that should be presented on the Agency website. This article analyses the information                                 systems of the Serbian Agency for Environmental Protection and the further possibilities of using these. Second, IT can be                                 used as a way of regular communication between government and citizens. In accordance with the principle of transparency,                                 government bodies are obliged to provide an adequate way for the public to have an insight into their work. In addition, the                                 authorized person is responsible for the accuracy of this information and for providing public access within a reasonable                                 timeframe. In this sense, the article analyses the legal framework of e-access to environmental information and the relevant                                 practice of the Commissioner for Information of Public Importance and Personal Data Protection. Third, the application of                                 IT in environmental matters can promote public participation in environmental decision-making. If there were a legal framework,                                 the public would be able to participate in procedures, such as environmental impact assessments, by submitting their opinions                                 as e-documents. This article points out the relations between the application of IT and the level of public awareness about                                 the environment, and the impact these relations have on environmental protection.                              ']
[u'Jason A. Delborne, Ashley A. Anderson, Daniel Lee Kleinman, Mathilde Colin, Maria Powell', u'Virtual deliberation? Prospects and challenges for integrating the Internet in consensus conferences ', 'Sage', 'http://pus.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/20/3/367', u'Consensus conferences have functioned well in small, relatively homogeneous countries such as Denmark. In the geographically                                 sprawling and socially diverse United States, however, meaningful citizen deliberation and decision-making on science and                                 technology depends upon the ability to bring more participants \u201cinto the room.\u201d The National Citizens\u2019 Technology Forum, held                                 in March 2008, responded to this need by integrating panels of citizens from multiple US cities in structured face-to-face                                 and online deliberation. We analyze the success of this experiment by focusing on the experience of participants during the                                 online deliberation component. We conclude with recommendations for future organizers of online deliberation, focusing on                                 the benefits of combining synchronous and asynchronous engagement and improving facilitation practice and software capabilities.                              ']
[u'Michael Cardwell', u'Public Participation in the Regulation of Genetically Modified Organisms: A Matter of Substance or Form? ', 'Sage', 'http://elj.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/12/1/12', u'The regulatory regime for GMOs contains provisions which grant to the public formal rights of participation. Such rights are                                 examined at international level (in particular, the Cartagena Protocol and the Aarhus Convention), at European Community level                                 and with specific reference to the United Kingdom. It would seem clear that their overall effect is materially to enhance                                 the role of civil society (the more so where locus standi is conferred on NGOs); and, in addition, United Kingdom case law indicates that environmental consultation exercises are                                 to be taken seriously (as is well illustrated by the decisions in Berkeley v Secretary of State for the Environment and R (on the application of Greenpeace Ltd) v Secretary of State for the Environment). On the other hand, there must remain some doubt as to the extent to which the views of the public are being fed into the                                 decision-making process itself, while the cost of challenging legislation once enacted may prove to be prohibitive. Further,                                 on a more general level, questions may be raised as to the efficacy of public engagement in technical and/or scientific issues;                                 and, notwithstanding that the regulation of GMOs remains \u2018work in progress\u2019, many of the major decisions which offered opportunities                                 for public participation have already been taken.                              ']
[u'Alenka Poplin', u'Digital Serious Game for Urban Planning: \u201cB3\u2014Design Your Marketplace!\u201d ', 'Sage', 'http://epb.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/41/3/493', u'The main goal of this paper is to study the design and implementation of a digital serious game for civic engagement in urban                                 planning. Digital serious games are games that aim to support learning in a playful and engaging way. Learning about the environment                                 and planned changes is essential in civic engagement. The study case is taken from a city district, Billstedt, in Hamburg,                                 Germany. In the implementation of a game concept we concentrated on the design of a marketplace in Billstedt. The game was                                 called \u201cB3\u2014Design your Marketplace!\u201d The B3 game aims to provide a playful digital environment in which the citizens gain                                 information about the current situation in the city district, have the possibility of submitting their own designs for the                                 marketplace, vote for the preferred designs, and chat with the experts and other participants. The prototype of the B3 serious                                 game was evaluated with a group of students and a group of elderly people. The majority of the participants involved in testing                                 expressed appreciation for the digital serious game as a new form of online civic engagement in urban planning. The paper                                 concludes with a discussion about the potential of digital serious games for civic engagement and open research questions.                              ']
[u'Keith Shaw, Louise Maythorne', u'Managing for local resilience: towards a strategic approach ', 'Sage', 'http://ppa.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/28/1/43', u'The term resilience is increasingly being used to capture the challenges involved in managing in \u2018hard times\u2019. This article                                 aims to provide one of the first empirical studies of the term\u2019s application to local authority interventions around emergency                                 planning and climate change: two areas in which resilience has been particularly emphasised in local policy making. Drawing                                 upon research undertaken in the north east of England, the article considers how local managers have understood and applied                                 the term, the extent to which it has been developed as a coherent policy agenda, and its strategic significance. In reframing                                 the debate on resilience in terms of discourses of \u2018recovery\u2019 and \u2018transformation\u2019, the article examines how, in addition                                 to informing policy realities on the ground, resilience is also a normative, politically laden term, within which conservative                                 narratives of uncertainty, vulnerability and anxiety compete with a more radical focus on hope, adaptation and transformation.                                 The study reveals concerns over the term\u2019s longevity, tensions between the different interpretations of resilience, and the                                 lack of a coherent strategic framework within which the different discourses on resilience could be considered and reconciled.                                 However, the article also captures the growing importance of a resilience narrative that is seen to add value in a period                                 of austerity, integrate key features of climate change adaptation and emergency planning, and act as a \u2018strategic lynchpin\u2019                                 in relation to other policy areas, such as economic resilience.                              ']
[u'Ines Mergel', u'Opening Government: Designing Open Innovation Processes to Collaborate With External Problem Solvers  ', 'Sage', 'http://ssc.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/33/5/599', u'Open government initiatives in the U.S. government focus on three main aspects: transparency, participation, and collaboration.                                 Especially the collaboration mandate is relatively unexplored in the literature. In practice, government organizations recognize                                 the need to include external problem solvers into their internal innovation creation processes. This is partly derived from                                 a sense of urgency to improve the efficiency and quality of government service delivery. Another formal driver is the America                                 Competes Act that instructs agencies to search for opportunities to meaningfully promote excellence in technology, education,                                 and science. Government agencies are responding to these requirements by using open innovation (OI) approaches to invite citizens                                 to crowdsource and peer produce solutions to public management problems. These distributed innovation processes occur at all                                 levels of the U.S. government and it is important to understand what design elements are used to create innovative public                                 management ideas. This article systematically reviews existing government crowdsourcing and peer production initiatives and                                 shows that after agencies have defined their public management problem, they go through four different phases of the OI process:                                 (1) idea generation through crowdsourcing, (2) incubation of submitted ideas with peer voting and collaborative improvements                                 of favorite solutions, (3) validation with a proof of concept of implementation possibilities, and (4) reveal of the selected                                 solution and the (internal) implementation of the winning idea. Participation and engagement are incentivized both with monetary                                 and nonmonetary rewards, which lead to tangible solutions as well as intangible innovation outcomes, such as increased public                                 awareness.                              ']
[u'Alexandra Stiver, Leonor Barroca, Shailey Minocha, Mike Richards, Dave Roberts', u'Civic crowdfunding research: Challenges, opportunities, and future agenda ', 'Sage', 'http://nms.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/17/2/249', u'Civic crowdfunding is a sub-type of crowdfunding through which citizens, in collaboration with government, fund projects providing                                 a community service. Although in the early stages of development, civic crowdfunding is a promising area for both research                                 and application due to its potential impact on citizen engagement, as well as its influence on the success of a wide range                                 of civic projects ranging from physical structures to amenities and local services. However, the field remains under-addressed                                 in academic research and underdeveloped in terms of the number of civic projects posted to crowdfunding platforms. Acknowledging                                 these issues, we outline the history of civic crowdfunding and describe the current landscape, focusing on online crowdfunding                                 platforms established specifically for the funding of civic projects (Citizinvestor, ioby, Neighbor.ly, Spacehive). The challenges                                 and the opportunities of civic crowdfunding are examined, and its distinguishing characteristics are outlined, including a                                 consideration of the impact of social media and platform features. We then propose a research agenda to help shape the future                                 of this emergent field.                              ']
[u'Peter Wilson, Yongjin Zhang, Tonny Brems Knudsen, Peter Wilson, Paul Sharp, Cornelia Navari, Barry Buzan', u'The English School in retrospect and prospect: Barry Buzan\u2019s An Introduction to the English School of International Relations: The Societal Approach / Pluralism, solidarism and the yin-yang of international society / Solidarism, pluralism and fundamental institutional change / English School, neo-neo-style / Unschooling the English School: Builders and interpreters / Primary and secondary institutions: Quo vadit? / Taking the English School forward   ', 'Sage', 'http://cac.sagepub.com/cgi/content/pdf_extract/51/1/94', 'NO ABSTRACT FOUND']
[u'Joel Penney', u'Motivations for participating in \u2018viral politics\u2019: A qualitative case study of Twitter users and the 2012 US presidential election  ', 'Sage', 'http://con.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/22/1/71', u'This study explores the rationales by which citizens both embrace and resist the notion of using peer-to-peer digital platforms                                 to circulate persuasive political messages. Drawing upon 25 in-depth interviews with US adults who used Twitter to link to                                 the popular YouTube video Will the Real Mitt Romney Please Stand Up? I discuss the extent to which they imagine their online activities to be potentially influencing others in certain desired                                 ways and thus constituting an instrumental form of political participation. The resulting analysis focuses on the complex                                 and uneasy relationship between this media-spreading activity and a marketing-like model that positions social media users                                 as microlevel participants in aggregate campaigns to shape public opinion. While some who engage in this activity enthusiastically                                 embrace goals of persuasion, others opt for alternative conceptual frameworks, such as fostering citizenship by informing                                 others and sparking deliberative dialogue, that seemingly avoid the manipulative connotations of political marketing.                              ']
[u'Joana L\xfacio', u'Talking about the city: Focus group discussions about the city and the community as developmental grounds with children aged\n                              5\u201317 ', 'Sage', 'http://eer.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/14/2/167', u'Due to its complexity, size, diversity (internal or external) and meanings, it is possible to analyse the city from various                                 points of view, which are, ultimately, references for the construction of knowledge about the urban space, and the logic of                                 apprehension and appropriation used by individuals and organizations in relation to the place they inhabit. The city is, increasingly,                                 a context for isolation and exclusion, where individuals share fewer experiences, which therefore become less significant.                                 The effective range of action each person or group has towards the city is clearly limited. This interferes with the process                                 of producing practical and emotional meanings, since the message conveyed is that such a space is defined \u2018in spite of people\u2019                                 and not \u2018because of people\u2019. In this article, the author mobilizes the productions of children between the ages of 5 and 17                                 in an attempt to capture their perceptions (their discourse) about urban life and education, as well as their appropriations                                 (their projects), either past, present or future. In the process, the author also discusses focus groups as platforms for                                 participation in the community context.                              ']
[u'Melissa Sweet, Luke Pearson, Pat Dudgeon', u'@Indigenousx: A Case Study of Community-Led Innovation in Digital Media ', 'Sage', 'http://mia.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/149/1/104', u'The ever-increasing uses for social media and mobile technologies are bringing new opportunities for innovation and participation                                 across societies, while challenging and disrupting the status quo. Characteristics of the digital age include the proliferation                                 of user-driven innovation and the blurring of boundaries and roles, whether between the producers and users of news and other                                 products or services, or between sectors. The @IndigenousX Twitter account, which has a different Aboriginal or Torres Strait                                 Islander person tweeting each week, is an example of user-driven innovation and of how Indigenous voices are emerging strongly                                 in the rapidly evolving digital landscape. Its founder, Luke Pearson, a teacher and Aboriginal education consultant, wanted                                 to share the platform he had established on Twitter for storytelling to an engaged audience. The account can thus be seen                                 as a form of citizen, participatory, community or alternative journalism. This article provides a preliminary analysis of                                 @IndigenousX, and suggests that this account and the diversity of Indigenous voices in the digital environment offer opportunities                                 for wide-ranging research endeavours. Initiatives like @IndigenousX are also a reminder that journalism has much to learn                                 from innovation outside the conventional realm of journalistic practice.                              ']
[u'John Antony Xavier', u'The World Bank Approach to Public Sector Management 2011\u20132020: lessons from the Malaysian experience ', 'Sage', 'http://ras.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/79/3/426', u"Drawing upon the Malaysian experience as reflected in interviews with selected senior bureaucrats across the Malaysian public                                 service in addition to the first-hand experience of the author in the reform effort, this commentary seeks to analyse the                                 extent to which Malaysia\u2019s approach to public management reform resonates with the proposed approach of the World Bank. The                                 World Bank Approach highlights the central importance of context in reform. Reforms that pre-specify their intended impact upon service delivery                                 have a better chance of success as, among other things, they are better able to attract a disproportionate amount of resources                                 and offer a platform for a blend of top-down and bottom-up approaches to reform where practitioners take heed of the collective                                 wisdom by consulting all stakeholders, including the public. Notwithstanding, reforms on the back of best practices should                                 not be discounted. Combined, these reforms, with the general purpose of enhancing government performance, do impact on service                                 delivery. While a problem-oriented approach to reform is a prerequisite, Malaysia's experience indicates that it is the follow-through                                 of the implementation effort that ultimately determines reform success.                              "]
[u'Mary F.E. Ebeling', u'Ground Wars: Personalized Communication in Political Campaigns ', 'Sage', 'http://csx.sagepub.com/cgi/content/pdf_extract/42/4/592', 'NO ABSTRACT FOUND']
[u'Michael W. Kpessa', u'The Politics of Public Policy in Ghana: From Closed Circuit Bureaucrats to Citizenry Engagement  ', 'Sage', 'http://jds.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/27/1/29', u'This article examines the trajectories and approaches to public policy making in Africa. Using process tracing interlaced                                 with analysis of historical records, secondary literature, and elite interviews, the article shows that since the 1990s, policy                                 making in some African countries, especially Ghana, has been witnessing a gradual shift away from bureaucratic approaches                                 to policy making to the ones that directly engage the citizenry through consultation and open public participation. The article                                 shows that this shift to citizenry participation is largely due to an emphasis in the development literature on good governance                                 broadly defined to include public participation, and the view of civil society as a platform for social transformation. The                                 article provides a step-by-step analysis of strategies used in recent social security reforms in Ghana to illustrate this                                 change in approach to public policy, and shows that public participation approach to policy making is fraught with several                                 structural challenges and impediments that not only privilege elites\u2019 preferences over the unorganized rural dwellers but                                 also questions some of the fundamental principles of the good governance mantra.                              ']
[u'Emily Talen', u'Do-it-Yourself Urbanism: A History  ', 'Sage', 'http://jph.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/14/2/135', u'In the last several years, interest has surged in the idea of small-scale, incremental, \u201cdo-it-yourself\u201d (DIY) urban improvement.                                 Also known as \u201ctactical,\u201d \u201cpop-up,\u201d or \u201cguerilla\u201d urbanism, this brand of urban intervention is resident-generated, low budget,                                 and often designed to be temporary. The approach is distinguished by being in direct opposition to top-down, capital-intensive,                                 and bureaucratically sanctioned urban change of the kind most often associated with urban planning. The purpose of this article                                 is to review the broader, historical rootedness of these efforts. DIY urbanism has been energized by a recession and a \u201cright                                 to the city\u201d spirit of guerrilla tactics, but it is actually rooted in a deeper tradition of nineteenth-century civic engagement.                                 Focusing on the American experience, I show that the idea of bottom-up, tactical, DIY urbanism forms an essential tradition                                 in American urbanism, an impulse that runs counter to the narrative of urban abandonment, and as such forms an essential platform                                 upon which notions of any \u201cback to the city\u201d movement draw support.                              ']
[u'Ethan Seltzer, Dillon Mahmoudi', u'Citizen Participation, Open Innovation, and Crowdsourcing: Challenges and Opportunities for Planning  ', 'Sage', 'http://jpl.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/28/1/3', u'Open innovation, taken from the fields of business strategy and technology development, can offer planners fresh insights                                 into their own practice. Open innovation, like citizen participation, goes outside the boundaries of the organization to find                                 solutions to problems and to hand ideas off to partners. A key technique for open innovation is \u201ccrowdsourcing,\u201d issuing a                                 challenge to a large and diverse group in hopes of arriving at new solutions more robust than those found inside the organization.                                 The differences between citizen participation and Internet-based crowdsourcing are discussed. Crowdsourcing case studies are                                 provided as a means for extending an emerging literature.                              ']
[u'Claus Rinner, Michelle Bird', u'Evaluating Community Engagement through Argumentation Maps\u2014A Public Participation GIS Case Study ', 'Sage', 'http://epb.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/36/4/588', u"Significant advances in public participation geographic information systems technology and online mapping platforms have not                                 translated into enhanced citizen participation in democratic planning processes. This study contributes to addressing this                                 gap by evaluating the engagement of members of an urban community in sustainable neighbourhood planning through argumentation                                 mapping. The study provided an online public discussion forum, together with a neighbourhood map to which the participants                                 could link their discussion contributions. On the basis of participation statistics, contents of contributions, and responses                                 to a survey, we discuss the participants' technical and engagement experiences. The sixteen registered participants lived                                 within or near the \u2018Queen West Triangle\u2019 in downtown Toronto, Canada. They rated themselves as experienced computer users                                 and consequently found the participation in the online discussion forum to be easy. The contributions showed a great degree                                 of interest and knowledge in the issues of sustainable community development. However, while the majority of participants                                 also rated themselves as comfortable with map reading, they found the handling of the online neighbourhood map difficult and                                 did not use the option to link their comments to the map.                              "]
[u'Stephen Kwamena Aikins, Dale Krane', u"Are Public Officials Obstacles to Citizen-Centered E-Government? An Examination of Municipal Administrators' Motivations and\n                              Actions ", 'Sage', 'http://slg.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/42/2/87', u'This study investigates why municipal officials have not fully taken advantage of the interactive features of the Internet                                 to bring citizens closer to their governments. Studies show that although the Internet has great potential to improve government\u2013citizen                                 relations, many governments at all levels have not taken advantage of this potential to improve Web site deliberative features                                 to enhance online citizen participation in the policy process. Based on the data analysis from a survey of local government                                 chief administrative officers in five Midwestern states, the authors find evidence that city officials have not taken advantage                                 of the Internet to bring citizens closer to their governments because these officials strongly prefer traditional citizen                                 participation to Internet-based citizen participation. In addition, deployment of resources to support online participation                                 is restrained by the low preference for Internet-based citizen participation. These findings call into question the widespread                                 assumption that public officials enthusiastically embrace the movement toward e-democracy.                              ']
[u'Scott L. Minkoff', u'NYC 311: A Tract-Level Analysis of Citizen\u2013Government Contacting in New York City  ', 'Sage', 'http://uar.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/52/2/211', u'311 is a telephone and web service that allows residents of many cities to report nonemergency concerns and problems with                                 city services to their local government. This article explores the Census-tract-level variation in 311 contacting volume within                                 New York City. Drawing on previous research on citizen\u2013government interaction, service delivery, and civic engagement, the                                 article focuses on how contacting propensity and condition both explain spatial variations in contacting volume. These explanations                                 are tested using indicators that describe the people who live and work in the space, the housing in the space, the economic                                 development of the space, and the space\u2019s representation in city government. 311 contacting is divided into three categories                                 (government-provided goods, graffiti, and noise) that are separately analyzed using regression models that account for spatial                                 and serial dependence. The article also discusses the theoretical and methodological challenges of using 311 data to understand                                 the distribution of problems within a city.                              ']
[u'Piotr Konieczny', u'The day Wikipedia stood still: Wikipedia\u2019s editors\u2019 participation in the 2012 anti-SOPA protests as a case study of online\n                              organization empowering international and national political opportunity structures ', 'Sage', 'http://csi.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/62/7/994', u'This article contributes to the discussions on Internet mobilization and on international social movements\u2019 ability to influence                                 national policy. The event studied is the \u2018first Internet strike\u2019 of 18 January 2012 aimed against the SOPA legislation proposed                                 in the USA. Wikipedia\u2019s volunteer editors from all around the world took part in the vote concerning whether Wikipedia should                                 undertake a protest action aimed at influencing American policymakers. Wikipedia editors are shown to share values of the                                 international free culture movement, though experienced editors were also likely to be conflicted about whether taking part                                 in a protest action was not violating the site\u2019s principle of encyclopedic neutrality. Further, Wikipedia\u2019s participation                                 in this protest action allowed non-US citizens to have a visible impact on the US national legislation. As such, Wikipedia                                 can be seen as an international social movement organization, whose 24 hour-long blackout of its popular website was a major                                 factor in the success of the anti-SOPA protests. Wikipedia\u2019s blackout was an expression of an international political opportunity                                 structure in the form of worldwide awareness and protests, which in turn enabled a national political opportunity structure                                 by informing and mobilizing American citizens.                              ']
[u'Benjamin Gleason', u'#Occupy Wall Street: Exploring Informal Learning About a Social Movement on Twitter  ', 'Sage', 'http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/57/7/966', u'Recent events suggest that social media, also called web 2.0, can support mass social change. Although some critics have lamented                                 how social media are eroding people\u2019s ability to communicate, others have argued that social media may allow individuals to                                 leverage their individual voices against authoritarian leaders. This article seeks to understand the ways in which individuals                                 can use a particular social media platform, the microblog Twitter, to learn about the Occupy Wall Street movement. This article                                 uses a mixed-methods approach, incorporating descriptive statistics, content analysis, and a case study of the author\u2019s learning                                 process to examine the existence of informal learning about the Occupy Wall Street movement. Scholars have proposed that informal                                 learning about a social movement is associated with participation in the movement. This study suggests that Twitter supports                                 multiple opportunities for participation in the Occupy movement\u2014from creating, tagging, and sharing content to reading, watching,                                 and following a hashtag\u2014which may facilitate learners becoming more informed, engaged citizens. To help ground this discussion,                                 an overview of the particular social and technical features of Twitter is provided. Second, several key learning theories                                 that seem particularly synergistic with the affordances outlined and a review of the current state of research on learning                                 within Twitter are described. Third, research questions, methods, and findings are presented, and a discussion that describes                                 the implications for civic engagement in the democratic process is included.                              ']
[u'Edna B. Foa, Seth J. Gillihan, Richard A. Bryant', u'Challenges and Successes in Dissemination of Evidence-Based Treatments for Posttraumatic Stress: Lessons Learned From Prolonged Exposure Therapy for PTSD  ', 'Sage', 'http://psi.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/14/2/65', u'Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) poses monumental public health challenges because of its contribution to mental health,                                 physical health, and both interpersonal and social problems. Recent military engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan and the multitude                                 of resulting cases of PTSD have highlighted the public health significance of these conditions.                              ']
[u'Ashleigh Thompson', u'Disability and the Internet: Confronting a Digital Divide ', 'Sage', 'http://csx.sagepub.com/cgi/content/pdf_extract/42/1/88', 'NO ABSTRACT FOUND']
[u'Nien-Tsu N. Chen, Fan Dong, Sandra J. Ball-Rokeach, Michael Parks, Jin Huang', u'Building a new media platform for local storytelling and civic engagement in ethnically diverse neighborhoods ', 'Sage', 'http://nms.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/14/6/931', u'This article describes a research-driven initiative to develop a hyper-local news website to promote civic engagement in an                                 ethnically diverse neighborhood in Los Angeles County, California, United States. Utilizing Communication Infrastructure Theory\u2019s                                 elucidation of the contribution of an integrated local storytelling network to civic engagement, multi-method research was                                 conducted to identify gaps and opportunities in the extant storytelling network \u2013 comprising residents, local media and community                                 organizations \u2013 that shape the study area\u2019s current engagement patterns. Empirical findings point to a web-based local storytelling                                 platform as a promising mechanism for facilitating engagement and inter-group interaction. The implications of these findings                                 for developing research-driven communication interventions to enhance civic engagement in other diverse neighborhoods are                                 discussed.                              ']
[u'Pauline Hope Cheong, Chris Lundry', u'Prosumption, Transmediation, and Resistance: Terrorism and Man-Hunting in Southeast Asia  ', 'Sage', 'http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/56/4/488', u'Terrorism is a mounting global threat for national security, yet the rise of social media facilitates prosumption and the                                 spread of alternative grassroots stories in response to civic militarization and state propaganda. This article discusses                                 the structural and cultural conditions underlying the production and spread of online user-generated content as radical media                                 tactics. By presenting a case study on the escape and man-hunting of a key terrorist in Southeast Asia, the article examines                                 prosumption and transmediation practices whereby official stories of the terrorist escape are appropriated, remediated, and                                 virally disseminated across different social media\u2013blogs, vlogs, and digital games\u2013to help clarify how new media supports                                 critical citizen engagement. The identification of online activities exhibiting middle-ground resistance, including rumors,                                 political parodies, and infotaining play, illustrates counter narrative responses to mainstream media representations. Findings                                 have implications for the management of tensions in wired global insurgency and strategic communication performances.                              ']
[u'Julie Freeman, Brett Hutchins', u'Balancing the Digital Democratic Deficit? E-Government ', 'Sage', 'http://mia.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/130/1/17', u"This article responds to Thomas's (2004) call for investigation into how the internet and World Wide Web are changing government                                 in Australia. It first discusses e-government principles and policies at the federal level, and then investigates initiatives                                 and events in one of Australia's most populous municipalities, the City of Casey in Melbourne's southeast. The objective of                                 this approach is to understand the broader context of e-government policy formulation in Australia, and connect this to the                                 level of local government in order to understand the features and dynamics of existing e-government mechanisms. The evidence                                 generated from this approach reveals an imbalance between service delivery and civic engagement in e-government strategies,                                 with the emphasis on consumer-oriented service delivery far outweighing civic participation and political dialogue. The analysis                                 that follows outlines actual and potential political problems flowing from this imbalance \u2014 or \u2018digital democratic deficit\u2019                                 \u2014 and offers suggestions on how equilibrium might be restored.                              "]
[u'John McCormick', u'Heike Kl\xfcver, Lobbying in the European Union: Interest Groups, Lobbying Coalitions, and Policy Change, reviewed by John McCormick\n                              ', 'Sage', 'http://ppq.sagepub.com/cgi/content/pdf_extract/22/1/141', 'NO ABSTRACT FOUND']
[u'Roxanne Missingham', u'Parliamentary library and research services in the 21st century: A Delphi study ', 'Sage', 'http://ifl.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/37/1/52', 'NO ABSTRACT FOUND']
[u'Daren C. Brabham', u'Crowdsourcing the Public Participation Process for Planning Projects ', 'Sage', 'http://plt.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/8/3/242', u'Public involvement is a central concern for urban planners, but the challenge for planners is how best to implement such programs,                                 given many difficulties inherent in the typical public involvement process. The medium of the Web enables us to harness collective                                 intellect among a population in ways face-to-face planning meetings cannot. This article argues that the crowdsourcing model,                                 a successful, Web-based, distributed problem solving and production model for business, is an appropriate model for enabling                                 the citizen participation process in public planning projects. This article begins with an exploration of the challenges of                                 public participation in urban planning projects, particularly in the harnessing of creative solutions. An explanation of the                                 theories of collective intelligence and crowd wisdom follows, arguing for the medium of the Web as an appropriate technology                                 for harnessing far-flung genius. An exploration of crowdsourcing in a hypothetical neighborhood planning example, along with                                 a consideration of the challenges of implementing crowdsourcing, concludes the article.                              ']
